Now, if it were up to me, I would say
that these following chapters where
we'll talk about software development
and application code are probably among
the most important topics in any
discussion about cyber security. And
that's simply because at the end of the
day, it all comes down to pure software.
The information that we're protecting
using cyber security is stored using
software solutions. the methods that
we're using to protect that information,
the security controls, those are also
software solutions. Even your dedicated
hardware security devices like your
firewalls or IPS's that you install in a
rack, those are nothing else than
specialized computers running a software
operating system that allow you to
configure them and ensure that a
software solution is actually going to
protect your network. So let's talk
about software development principles
because this is where everything begins
and everything ends. All the problems in
cyber security and all the solutions.
We have all these security measures in
place to protect us against attacks and
threats and vulnerabilities being
exploited. But here's a crazy idea. What
if we built from the very beginning our
applications so secure that we wouldn't
have to worry about cyber attacks
anymore?
That's a crazy idea because it doesn't
work. It never works. The harsh truth is
that is virtually impossible to build an
application that is bug free,
vulnerability free, that cannot be
exploited or attacked in any way. But we
do have methods in place that we can try
to leverage so that at the end of the
development of an application, we can be
pretty confident that our product is as
close as possible to that ideal state of
security that we intend to have. And
this is where something called SDLC or
software development life cycle comes
into play. And it all started with our
need for software applications. We need
applications to run our businesses to
ensure that they're making money, that
our customers are happy. Uh we need
applications to keep us connected. We
use apps to deliver entertainment,
pizza, and groceries to deliver
ourselves from one place to the next. We
use applications for a ton of stuff. We
even use social applications to get a
date. We rely on them every single day.
We want them now. We want them up and
running, functional, especially if they
introduce some new idea that
revolutionizes one specific segment. And
this all applies not just to the apps
that we buy and download to our devices,
but also to the apps that we're
developing for our customers. So,
everything sounds pretty good. What's
wrong here? What's wrong with this
approach? What's the problem? Well,
let's assume that our company has an
awesome idea about a new application
with a revolutionary idea. Now at some
point during development of that
application well the application will
grow sometimes beyond the initial
requirements because we or the customer
wants more features. So let's say the
customer suddenly wants to allow the
users to store their profile or their
personal data somewhere in the cloud. So
there you have it. Now you have to
develop a new functionality in the
application that allows and secures
cloud connections and build everything
around those cloud connections that
store the user profiles. Maybe the
customer suddenly decides that we want
to let users import their data or their
profiles from some other prehistoric
junk app that they've been using up
until that point. So we need a migration
process and a migration functionality
for those users. Maybe allow them to
share content, maybe to post to
Facebook, to Twitter, to I don't know,
LinkedIn or Tik Tok or whatever, or use
the application in the car while they're
driving or maybe voice control or
location aware services or inapp
purchases, of course. Well, it all
sounds great, but all these additional
features, all that additional
functionality actually does one very
important thing. Well, first it keeps
our customers happy, of course, but it
also drastically increases our attack
surface, our exposure to the outside
world where we are vulnerable to
attacks. So, how do we manage this? How
do we keep adding functionality to our
applications while still keeping the
focus on security practices and making
sure that everything that we add to that
application is non-stop, checked,
secured, validated? Well, one way of
doing this would be well, you decide to
add a new functionality and then you
talk to the developer and say, well,
make sure you implement this and also
make sure you secure it. And the
developer asks, how should I secure it?
And you say, I don't know. Just ask
someone on Stack Overflow. Just copy and
paste some code from there and you're
good to go. Well, don't laugh. That's
actually modern software development,
and it happens more often than we would
like to admit. But a better solution of
course would be to have an organized
approach to this process where we focus
on security almost as much as we focus
on the final features themselves. And
that organized process is generally
known as the software development life
cycle which is nothing else than a
concept a process that we use to split
the development of our application into
very specific phases. And one thing to
keep in mind is that not only the
developers are focused on the software
development life cycle but for the exam
you should also known that testers or
software architects, product managers,
project managers and so on are also
involved in the same process. And well
if I were to show you this slide right
here you might say that well we are
already doing something that looks like
this right? So we're thinking about what
we need to develop that's the design
phase. Then we start developing the
code. Then we test it just to make sure
it works. And then finally we ship it to
the customer. So do we really need to
call this a process? Isn't this the
natural way of doing things in software
development? Well, even if you're
already doing this, this is a reactive
approach to software development. It's
not a highle overview that you've
decided to do. It's something that
happens naturally, right? You decide you
want a feature, you implement the
feature, you test it, and then you show
it to the customer. But there's no
highle overview of what everybody is
doing at a certain point in time. So
it's more like the way things just
happen to work. And don't get me wrong,
this is okay for smaller projects,
especially for projects where maybe one
or two developers are involved and
there's not much coding involved. Like
there aren't many features or you're not
coding for a very long time. Well, this
kind of approach might work just well.
But for larger projects, more complex
projects, there's just so much
complexity that this cowboy approach is
going to bring your project to a
complete stop. And this even applies to
the second model here on the screen.
Because even if you at some point just
decide to go back and develop some
additional features or just change your
mind and stop working on a feature and
come back and test some more because
some things aren't working properly.
This is also a reactive approach. So
we're going to talk about bringing some
structure to these approaches and let us
not forget that we work with cyber
security. So we're going to be concerned
about the security aspects at every
phase in the software development life
cycle. And security is something that
definitely doesn't just happen to be
implemented. It has to be a clear
direction, an overview, a a process for
writing or testing and deploying secure
code. Otherwise, today's coding mistakes
are going to be tomorrow's security
vulnerabilities. And of course, we're
not the first ones to have thought about
this. So, from a purely security
perspective, we also have secure
development life cycle. Like for
example, the Microsoft security
development life cycle. And if we move
on to the more open area of development,
we also have the OASP software security
assurance process also known as OSAP.
But no and their main purpose is to
embed security in the software
development life cycle with a big focus
on web applications. So you need to know
exactly the phases of an SDLC and these
are general phases but we'll try to talk
about each and every one of them from a
security perspective. All right. So
we're going to start with planning. This
is kind of obvious right? This is the
big picture. These are the things that
you're going to think about when you can
sleep, when you have a new idea, when
you're on the toilet. Doesn't matter
where. But this is where we're going to
analyze things like the market that we
want to develop and distribute our
application in. So we're going to look
at market surveys, going to ask perhaps
some domain experts. We're going to talk
with regular 2B users that are going to
probably use our application and see
what their input is. Focus on their
needs. Focus on any ideas that they
might have and also look at the
competition because probably you're not
going to be the very first one that
comes up with that specific idea. Now
from a security perspective, the
planning phase is going to involve the
training of the developers and the
testers in best practices related to
security and good security principles so
that they know what to look for and how
they should approach any new feature
that gets implemented or tested.
Secondly, we move to the requirements
phase or the requirements and analysis
phase. And this is where we're going to
prepare the plan or the recipe for the
rest of the life cycle. We're going to
think here about business requirements
because the application has to solve a
business need of the users or of the
company. So we have to address to be
sure that the features that we plan to
develop actually solve and address that
business requirement. And also of course
we need a way to measure our results. So
if we are unsatisfied with our current
business process by implementing this
app we should be able to demonstrate
that we have improved it by x% or any
other metric that we deem necessary but
again this is also going to be on the
highlevel overview but with a focus on
actual business needs. Now this is all
on the business side. On the development
side, we're going to think about any
software requirements like internal
libraries, external connections that we
expect our applications to have, any
hardware requirements, what devices our
application is supposed to run on, and
what are the minimum specs for those um
for those devices. Also, from a
development and security perspective, we
have to think about the data. How do we
store data? How do we store it securely?
Where do we want to store the data? Is
it in a cloud environment? Is it on a on
a user device for example? Do we let the
user directly access the data or do we
manage it for them? What connections is
the application going to have? How is
the traffic going to flow to and from
the application or to and from other
external cloud services that we might be
uh leveraging? So basically we think
about addressing the answer to the
question how is our data going to be
secured when it's stored or when it is
in transit. Another way of saying
securing data at rest or in transit. And
finally, from a security perspective as
well, a big design point is how do we
manage users and permissions? Who can
create users? What kind of default
permissions they have? How are
permissions updated, upgraded, changed
or maintained over time. Third, we move
on to the design phase. This is where
the developers are 100% involved because
we have to do some risk analysis here.
decide what kind of libraries we use in
our code, what kind of uh features,
connections we're going to enable from a
security perspective because we need to
decide what threats we're going to face
with each new design decision. If we
decide to add something new, something's
going to come in and say, well, this
requires an external connection or this
requires opening an additional port to
the outside world, which is a new
potential attack vector. On the design
phase, the product managers and the
developers should also pay very close
attention to reusing third-party
libraries or thirdparty code and that
includes again the code that you just
paste from Stack Overflow. But for most
common implementations like for example
you know accessing HTTPS or any an SSL
library or connecting using an API to a
well-known application developers are
most likely going to use predefined
libraries or SDKs that are going to help
them avoid reinventing the wheel every
time they need to implement that
well-known functionality. So be very
careful here what kind of code you're
going to be reusing and what kind of new
vulnerabilities you'll be introducing in
your code perhaps even without even
knowing about them. Functional
requirements come up here as well
because we're talking about the design
of the application. So we need to think
about usability. This is where we'll uh
have to design not just the application
but also some usage scenarios about how
the application is going to be used by
its users. From a security perspective,
the requirements here have to be
detailed in a much more granular manner
because we have to think about exactly
what kind of libraries we're going to be
using. How much access will allow our
users, who can communicate with whom,
and we have to think what encryption
algorithms we use, digital signature
algorithms or hashing algorithms and all
that stuff that has to be decided before
we actually start implementing those
security principles. Have to choose the
best tools for the job at hand. And
let's not forget that also in this phase
we have to design some audit logging
functionality which means we have to
have a way to identify and store
long-term preferably what the users are
doing for debugging purposes for
investigation purposes even for
performance purposes because we need to
monitor how the application is behaving
and we need to know what part of the
application we need to address when some
complaints start coming in in the tech
support department. Next phase is the
implementation phase and this is where
the actual code gets written. During the
implementation, we'll also have perhaps
code review sessions and unit testing
that is testing a minimal functionality
like a method or a class that you've
just designed just to see that it does
what it's supposed to be doing. This
also has to be done with security in
mind. So starting from the smallest
piece of code that you add to your
application, that piece of code has to
be tested not just for performance and
features but also from a security
perspective. And this is called white
box testing because you actually have
access to the entire source code. Uh you
can see the execution of the program
going from one line to the next. You can
see the branches and the decisions and
then you can decide if there are certain
places where vulnerabilities might exist
or uh behaviors in your applications
that can be exploited. And of course we
have a dedicated testing phase. This is
where we get the code from the
developers and then we run it through a
bunch of automated tests. Now of course
manual testing is going to be included
here as well. But from a security
perspective the first step here is to
start looking at the code like an
attacker and try to break the code. This
is going to be along the lines of gray
box testing. That is you have partial
knowledge of how the application was
written but not direct access to the
source code or even blackbox testing
where you hire a tester or a penetration
tester or a security tester to try to
break your application and try to
exploit a vulnerability or make it crash
without knowing what the actual code
looks like. Just like an attacker,
deployment is about pushing your code
and delivering it to your clients or
your users. Now, there is a slight
difference here, especially in DevOps,
uh, between the terms of delivery and
deployment. Now, in most cases, delivery
is about getting to that final state
where the application is built, is
compiled and is ready to be used, but
it's not just yet in the hands of the
users or the customers. Now on the other
hand, deployment is going to be about
actually providing access to the
application, installing it into a cloud
environment in your on premises
environment or uh in an app store for
example for users to be able to access
it. And since we're talking about giving
users access to our application, we have
to think about a secure method of doing
this. So for example, we're going to
think about a secure distribution
mechanism. How do we deliver the
application to the end users in a secure
manner? So, we're going to think about
signing the installation package with
our own signature so that the customer
can always be sure that the product
actually came from us and not a hacker
that has injected their own code into
our application. And we have to decide
how are we going to package the
application. Is going to be
automatically downloaded from an app
store? Is going to be fully delivered as
a virtual appliance for example that is
going to be deployed in a virtualized
environment? Is it going to be a
container? and so on and so forth. Each
and every one of these methods of course
has their own security best practices
that we should follow in order to
provide our customers with the necessary
trust that our product hasn't been
tampered with and is working as
expected. Next phase is the maintenance
phase. This is where we're going to do
ongoing monitoring from a performance
point of view. Of course, just to make
sure the application doesn't crash and
it's performing within acceptable
parameters and also from a security
perspective, just to make sure that the
application has been breached, that a
user did not escalate their privileges
and no confidential information has been
exposed outside of a secure environment.
And the approach in a maintenance phase
is most likely going to be an incident
response type of approach. So that's
going to be fully reactive. We wait for
something to break. We wait for
something to be detected as um
malfunctioning and then we try to fix
it. How do we fix it? Well, of course,
this is where we'll going to develop
patches and updates and fixes for our
code. And of course, a lot of these
updates are going to be security related
as well. Just look at the update logs
from uh the applications on your phone
or on your operating system. In most
cases, over half of the updates are
focused on security patches and security
fixes due to the fact that new
vulnerabilities are identified every
single day. Now, during maintenance, we
also have to react to the changes of the
underlying operating system. So, if
everybody just starts updating their
operating systems, it doesn't matter if
it's a mobile OS, a desktop OS, you
still have to test your application and
make sure it works properly on the newer
versions of the OS as well. And this is
also part of the maintenance phase. And
finally the application at some point is
going to reach retirement or end of
life. This is the point where you stop
developing any additional features or
fixes for the application. So you
basically abandon the application
altogether. This also called sometimes
end of maintenance because the
maintenance phase completely ends. So
there you have it. It also can happen if
the product or the parent company gets
bought by another company and they
decide just to let that project go and
focus then their efforts onto different
ideas. And as simple this phase might
sound, it's not just about pulling the
plug on the on the application, but it's
actually going to require you to think
about how do you retire a software that
might still be in use by some customers
out there. So for example, you should
think about let's say external services.
If any external services that your
applications rely on are going to shut
down at some point, you won't be able to
update your application anymore, what's
going to happen to any users that are
still using that application. Now, if
you need some inspiration for the
security best practices, especially when
it comes to an organized process of
software development, have a look over
to the OAS website where uh you're going
to find a huge community effort with a
lot of secure programming resources,
especially for web applications. And
also have a look over to the SANS
website. This is the CISA admin network
and security institute. and they publish
a lot of papers on security research uh
secure coding and general best practices
not just for web applications but for
development in general. Now we know
about the general development life cycle
the life cycle of an application but how
is this actually translated into real
world? How is software development
implemented in the real world? And this
is where we'll start talking about
software development methodologies. Now
the first one is going to be called the
chaos methodology which as you can
probably guess isn't much of a
methodology at all. You just start
coding. You just start fixing whenever
you detect some bugs or then some things
that don't work properly. Not really
documented. So you don't have an
overview and a detailed plan about what
you need to do tomorrow or the day after
tomorrow. You just start coding. And
then uh when do you stop? Well, that's
kind of a problem here because you don't
exactly know when to stop. You just
decide at some point, well, I'm done
with this application. This is the end
of development and this is the final
product. Now, I probably don't have to
explain why this is mostly a bad idea
for most projects out there, but uh let
me mention just one. For example, if
there's a major change that needs to be
performed in the code because somebody
changed their mind in the middle of
development, well, without any
documentation, without a clear way to
track progress for every feature and how
and where it was implemented, it's going
to be pretty difficult to identify even
where to start working when you need to
change or add a new feature. Also, on
the downsides here is the fact that you
cannot really measure anything. You
cannot measure your code quality. You
cannot validate if the features are
working properly because you don't have
a clear list of features and how they
should be tested just to make sure that
everything is working fine. If I start
talking about security, well, we don't
even know anything about security here,
right? It might be in there. We might
have just copy and pasted some public
implementations for example, maybe
important some open libraries that help
us secure our code, but we don't really
have an overview. And again, we don't
have a way to test that security because
we don't have any documentation. Now
probably the only uh situation where
this approach is beneficial is with very
very small projects with one or maybe
two people working on the code at the
same time because they can communicate
directly and they know mentally what
stage of the project they're currently
in, what still needs to be developed,
what still needs to be tested. But
that's pretty much it. More than two
people and well chaos emerges and not in
a good way, not in a software
development methodology uh kind of way.
The second methodology is called the
waterfall. And well, this looks like the
first example that we've given a couple
of slides ago. And if you think about it
for a second, you might think, well,
this is how software development should
look like. I mean, you you have a plan.
You have a very strict plan. You design
your requirements, you follow the
requirements, you implement it, you test
it, and then you give it nicely wrapped
to the end customer. So this should be
the only development method out there,
right? So why isn't everybody doing it?
Well, the answer is that it's extremely
difficult to implement this in the real
life. So in most cases, this remains
just a theoretical model for software
development. The main idea with the
waterfall implementation is that you
first make a plan and then you follow
each step in a strict manner and you
only advance to the next phase if the
current phase is fully completed. So
it's pretty much like cooking a recipe,
right? You look at the recipe, you
prepare your ingredients, you cook the
ingredients, and then you, you know, ask
for feedback for example when the dinner
is ready. And just like cooking a
recipe, the main advantage is that it's
really simple to understand. So you have
requirements, you have system design,
you have implementation, testing,
deployment, maintenance. Kind of like
the entire definition of the software
development life cycle here, but with
the restrictions that we've mentioned
before, right? you have to finish each
phase before you advance to the next
one. Now, in some official documents,
I've found the idea that even in the
waterfall model, you should assume that
you can always at least go back one
single step. For example, if you start
testing your code and then you realize,
well, uh the this entire piece of code
here is broken. This entire
functionality cannot be accessed. Well,
you stop testing and then everybody goes
back and start developing some more and
fixing those bugs in there before you
move on to the next phase. And it kind
of makes sense, right? But by its uh
let's say official definition, Warflow
model doesn't allow you to go back at
any point in time. In real life though
well where this model can be implemented
it is going to allow you to go one step
back. So keep this in mind for the exam
as well. Now when is this functional
when is this working properly in
situations where the requirements are
very well documented beforehand and we
know exactly what are the tools that we
have at our disposal and we know exactly
what the customer wants or what we want
to develop. So everything works if it
can be perfectly planned. It also works
for smaller projects because those are
easier to understand, easier to document
and most likely there's not going to be
much change from the very beginning to
the end. The advantage from a security
perspective is that security can be
checked and implemented and validated at
every step along the way. But of course,
it's not so good for those projects that
might require some changes after the
initial design was established, which is
pretty much all software projects out
there, right? Everybody's going to
change their mind at some point. The
customer is going to want some new
feature. You're going to realize that
implementing a specific feature is
perhaps too costly or takes too much
time and you make some changes here to
adapt on the way. Well, this is not
something you can do with the waterfall
model. So among the pros here, we have a
structure that is easy to learn, to
understand. It's easy to focus on one
single phase at a single time. Everybody
knows what they have to do, what they're
in charge of. It's well documented who
did what, why they did it, when they did
it, and developers know exactly what to
do, right? We have clear goals for each
step, directions for moving on. Now on
the con side, you might not expect this,
but it's actually hard to decide when
the development should end simply
because everybody is a bit of afraid of
that moment because that's the point
where development completely stops. So
the state of the application actually
becomes locked in. So you cannot make
any further changes. So you'd better be
absolutely sure that the application is
correctly designed, coded, implemented
whenever you decide to stop the
development phase. So that might be
actually more difficult than you would
think. Deciding when to stop. And of
course, the biggest con here is the fact
that major code changes are next to
impossible to implement in a waterfall
model. Right? If there's a big enough
change, in most cases, the entire
process starts from the beginning. Next
one is the agile methodology, which is
not really a model in itself, but it's
just a way of doing development. So it's
somehow a way to focus on uh specific
values, principles and rules to live by
while you're developing your code. So
for the exam at least, you have to
understand the big picture, not the
individually each and every aspect of
this uh agile development methodology.
And if you want to actually understand
more about what agile means, I would
encourage you to read at least once the
agile manifesto available at agile
manifesto.org, or which is a website
that kind of screams welcome to 1997
here. But the big picture here is that
among the values of the agile model are
the people and interactions. So we focus
on the people and interactions. Uh we
focus on working software. strive to
obtain something that is working that
something that as minimal as it is as it
is we can show it to the end customer
and say this is what we have so far and
let's talk about this let me know what
you think and then we'll move on from
here so of course it's going to involve
a lot of customer collaboration involve
the customer directly and uh be sure and
be ready for changes to occur during the
development phase so in agile change is
welcome so we expect things to change we
expect the customer to change their
mind. We expect us to change direction
and maybe completely change some
features during the development phase.
So one of the values is actually the
ability to quickly respond to change to
allow change to happen to implement it
as quickly as possible to test it as
quickly as possible preferably in an
automated manner and then quickly
showing it back to the customer saying
well this is a prototype of the change
that you just requested let me know what
you think so far. Another principle of
the agile method is to deliver working
software frequently. That is always have
something to show to the customer. And
at the very beginning, this is sometimes
called a minimum viable product MVP. If
you find this acronym in the exam, it
encourages face-to-face communication
very much. Well, not so much nowadays,
but you know what I mean. And the main
metric that we use to measure our
progress, to measure our software is
actual working software. So we need
something to show to the customer and
then we'll continue development from
that point on. Now it probably sounds
good, right? Everybody's collaborating,
everybody loves each other and
everybody's flower power here. But the
idea is that and the idea is that it
actually focuses a lot on teamwork. It's
very flexible. It also allows for cross
trainining between different uh
development teams and also can provide a
more realistic approach because the
development team constantly checks in
with the customer and they decide
together what still needs to be done or
still needs to be improved. So there are
no you know fake expectations or just
relying on promises. We're actually
looking at a partially developed product
and we know exactly where we are. Now on
the con side is not really useful for
small projects. So the overhead that is
brought on by this let's say extreme
collaboration during agile might
actually be unnecessary on very small
projects where just a couple of people
can decide what needs to be done and
start working on it and then show a
mostly final product at the uh at the
end of the development period. Now on
the con side it might not be ideal for
very complex projects because we might
lose track of the big picture by
focusing only on the details especially
if we don't have some highlevel overview
goals that are clearly defined from the
very beginning which we mostly don't
have using agile and we also have a very
high dependency on the individuals
because there's not much documentation
happening during these processes. So the
people are the ones that will hold all
the information. Now the next model is
the iterative model which uh generally
doesn't focus on the big picture of the
application but just on a specific
feature or just a part of the final
software. Now this model is based on
iterations. So once we finalize one
iteration for one feature for example
we're going to move on to the next
iteration where we design test implement
repeat all these steps as many times as
we need until we reach the uh desired u
end state. Just like the waterfall
model, this one is good for projects
that have well-defined requirements that
have been pre-established before
starting work on the project. But unlike
the waterfall model, this one expects
some functionality to be requested later
on. So for example, we might add a new
functionality if you're working with
developers that do not know yet all the
technology that is involved on that
project or some resources are not
available yet. Again, these are
situations where the iterative model
adapts more quickly than any other um
well-defined pre-planned model that
we've talked about. So, among the
advantages of this model is the fact
that is uh it's quite good for measuring
progress. It's easy to test at each step
where we are also from a security
perspective. And also risk analysis is
uh is improved because if we run a risk
analysis and we detect some additional
risks, we can always reiterate over that
phase until we reach a you know a
desired security posture. On the con
side, it's going to use a bit more
resources than other models out there.
And while it's pretty good for adding
additional requirements to the project,
it's not exactly ideal for changing
previous requirements. And also, it's
not really useful for small projects
because it includes some overhead that
might not be necessary for uh for small
projects where just a couple of people
can talk among themselves and decide
what to code, when to test, and when to
deliver. Finally, the last model that
we're going to cover is this spiral
model, which is basically just a
combination between the waterfall model
and the iterative model that we just
talked about. And it relies on
incremental releases of the software,
but not by following a linear path. So,
we have the ability to revisit the same
phases as many times as we need multiple
times. Hence, the spiral representation.
So you might have to go multiple times
through the phases of you know
determining some objectives, some new
objectives or some changed objectives,
identify and resolve any security risks
that we might be facing. Go through the
development and testing phases of course
and then uh see if we need to plan for
the next iteration and how should the
next iteration should look like. As you
can expect, it's good for long-term
projects where requirements are expected
to change simply because it takes just
so long to develop the final product or
if the customer is not sure about all
the requirements from the very
beginning. So you give them some u
freedom you know to decide along the
way. So of course the pros of this
approach are the fact that it allows you
to add new features on the fly. Uh any
changes can be done easier of course and
uh development is broken down in smaller
parts. So we have the ability to
evaluate and to mitigate risk in a
better manner in a more efficient way.
On the coin side management can be
difficult because we have a lot of
intermediary stages. We don't really
know exactly how many uh you know cycles
through the spiral we're going to be
doing until the end of the project. So
it requires a lot of structure and a lot
of documentation and also somebody to
decide beforehand when the development
should stop. So so it doesn't continue
until the end of time. All right. So for
the exam make sure you understand and
you can clearly explain all the phases
and what happens in all the phases of
the software development life cycle and
also make sure you understand all the
development methodologies that we've
covered so far. And next time we're
going to talk about actual coding best
practices or how to code securely. So,
thank you so much for watching. Good
luck on the exam. See you next time and
don't forget to like and subscribe.
Thank you.
[Music]