We've mentioned threat modeling over the
past few episodes, but without going
into too much detail, and we've seen a
couple of frameworks that help us with
the first few steps, but now and in the
following episodes, it's time to point
out exactly what to look for when you're
searching for threats. And to be able to
do this properly, we're going to need a
couple more concepts.
[Music]
So, we've been talking about threat
modeling over the past few episodes, and
by now we should have a pretty good idea
of what it's all about. But the exam is
going to ask you in much more detail. So
to help you out answer those tricky
questions which unfortunately are not
very technical we have this exact
episode to understand what risks you're
facing. You must first understand what
exactly is important for you because
those important things are the ones that
you will want to protect. What are the
systems that support your business? The
most valuable resources that you rely on
the things that you need in order to
actually have a business. Then we need
to see how these systems can be
threatened from a CIA perspective. So to
put a name to it, we'll call this
process threat modeling. It's how you
model, how you describe all the threats
and the cyber security risks that
threaten your business. For threat
modeling, you need to be able to answer
a couple of questions and they're going
to help you not just for the exam, but
also for your daily cyber security
business because they're going to help
you determine how secure you currently
are and what future risks you might be
facing. For example, where would you
expect an attack to come from? Do we
suspect insider threats, internet
threats, mobile threats? This is
important because this is how we decide
where we will focus our attention.
Secondly, what is the potential for
losing any of the CIA attributes? In
some situations, we might not even be
concerned about confidentiality at all.
For example, if you're just hosting a
company website, a company presentation
website, or a news website, pretty much
everything is going to be public in
there. So you don't need to encrypt to
protect anything. So you're not really
concerned about confidentiality, but you
will be concerned about integrity. If
it's your company's website, for
example, you don't want just anybody to
be able to change some information in
there, post some some fake content, some
fake news about your company, then
another question, how likely is a
specific threat to happen? Do we know
for sure that there is a specific
exploit, a specific attack that we're
vulnerable to out there? Or are we just
worried that there might be some exploit
that we know nothing about? Also,
regarding how likely an attack actually
is, do we really need to prepare for,
let's say, when a meteor strikes our
data center? It could happen. It would
be disastrous, but the probability of
that event happening is so small that it
actually doesn't make any sense to
invest in any security measures like in
any uh system that shoots meteors out of
the sky, right? No matter how cool that
would seem. Then what defense
capabilities we currently have right
now? What is our current security
posture? Is there anything that we can
use to defend ourselves against any
known threats out there? Uh do we have
any firewalls in our closet? Does
anybody have an IPS? Could you bring it
tomorrow, please? Thank you. No, I'm
kidding, of course, but it's important
to know where we stand because we might
be able to repurpose some of our
currently security controls that we have
in use or just reconfigure them to
improve our posture. And finally, the
bottom line. What is missing? Where do
we suck at security? It's very important
because the answer to this question is
going to determine all the next steps.
So, assuming that you can answer these
questions, then you should have the
following information available.
Starting with adversary capabilities.
Now, if you did your threat intelligence
homework right and you should have some
valuable information about this already.
Now, by definition, an adversary
capability is their ability to develop
an attack and to execute it. How do you
determine this? Well, you start by
determining who are the most likely
attackers. Then you ask yourself and
research what kind of resources they
have access to. Also, how well are they
funded? MITER defines the following
categories for describing an adversar's
capabilities. Right? So let's see them
one by one and see exactly what they
mean. Now the first one is acquired.
This is a very limited capability of a
let's say beginner hacker who doesn't
have too much expertise not a lot of
resources at their disposal. We expect
these attacker to use commodity malware.
Remember those are the tools developed
by others and we expect them to play by
the book or to follow the pretty much
standard recipe for an attack right
without too much creativity or
innovation. Also, we don't expect them
to rely too much on human deception or
social engineering. Maybe just some
basic email scams, but that's pretty
much it. The second capability level is
augmented. Now, this attacker has a bit
more experience, uses known
vulnerabilities, so researches them
beforehand. Uh, they might also use some
custom malware, but the tools are no
more than the standard ones. Now, if
they develop their own zero days, their
tools are still based on others
purchased from the darknet. Limited
human involvement, limited uh deception,
just a bit of email, maybe a bit of
social media now and then. Next one is
developed. They can develop their own
malware and their own delivery
mechanisms. They also have the expertise
to discover completely new
vulnerabilities. They might rely on some
stronger human interaction, you know,
like coercion for example. An attacker
with the advanced capability has the
ability to influence commercial product.
Imagine that, right? and services even
during the entire life cycle, you know,
controlling the supply chain and even
creating their own vulnerabilities.
Yikes, that is dangerous. They use a
much wider range of of attacks and
tricks starting from the production line
all the way through the supply chain,
the distributors, the partners up to the
end user. Doesn't sound like there is
anything more, but there is and it's
called integrated. Sky is the limit
here. Now attackers are extremely
skilled and have any resources at their
disposal. They generate their own
opportunities, their own um
vulnerabilities, their own attack
opportunities, right, to successfully
conduct their attacks and even leverage
perhaps even political and military
assets. Now, one thing to bear in mind,
regardless how terrified you are right
now and how scary these capabilities
look for you, attacker capabilities are
strongly affected by what defenses we
already have in place. Which means that
a lot of potential attacks from lower
capability attackers are never even
attempted in the first place because the
attacker discovers your defenses and
concludes that the effort is just not
worth it.
There must be easier targets out there
and there are right. So I guess there is
a silver lining to all this in the end.
Coming up next on threat modeling is the
total attack surface. That is everything
that you own and that can be attacked by
someone on the inside or someone on the
outside. Now every precious device,
every valuable service or every point of
entry where an attacker can infiltrate
your networks or your systems, even your
buildings in your employees.
So the first step for determining the
attack surface is to identify what you
currently have. Make an inventory of
physical and non-physical assets in your
organization. Add to this list
everything that you can think of.
Networked devices, applications,
services, even business processes can be
vulnerable if they rely on a human
factor, right? As most business
processes do. Start by looking at the
corporate network, what network ports
you have in your building, what wireless
networks you have accessible from the
building or from outside the building,
and where they allow access to the
cloud, any infrastructure or application
that you might be running in some cloud.
Check your web presence. Anything
exposed to the internet. And this covers
websites, web servers, email servers,
DNS servers, VPN servers, any point of
entry that has some connection or direct
connection to the internet. Internal
applications and everything that runs in
your data center and your own company
workstations, your laptops, your mobile
devices. Think about how you ingest any
data. Again, any connection with the
outside world, where you store it, how
it is accessed, what APIs you are
exposing to the outside, if any, and how
well they are secured, even the building
itself and your employees. Physical
access as well as social engineering
attacks are extremely dangerous. So,
these are part of the attack surface as
well. Don't ignore them. Now, the bottom
line here is try to be as small as
possible as far as how you're opening up
to the world. Of course, this can be
done up to a certain point because you
probably need to have an online presence
to exist, to communicate, to share
information with your customers, to to
have customers, right? So you're not
going to be able to reduce it to zero
but you should be able to harden it as
well as you can and you should be able
to reduce it as much as possible. Now we
cannot have proper threat modeling
without defining the attack vector that
is the actual method of attack on an
attack surface or how exactly is the
attack being delivered. Again to make
this more clear we have some categories
here defined by MITER the cyber vector.
This means that the malware uses some
sort of an IT system, a local network,
the internet, social media, even email,
a compromised user account, some rogue
devices, some USB drive, some unsecured
ports, both TCP IP as well as you know
the physical ports, the network ports in
your network. Then we have the physical
vector. This covers attacks that rely on
means of physically getting access to
some private area or buildings. This is
where we find attacks that steal or
clone keys or access cards or try to
gain entrance to a building through
unlocked doors, windows or unsurveiled
areas. As you can see, electronic
physical security systems are somewhat
related to the cyber vector as well. For
example, an attacker could hack or deny
of service the video surveillance feed
to secretly gain access to a building
and that would be a combination of cyber
and physical attack vectors. Then of
course we have the human vector. Humans
are the weakest link. This is where we
find social engineering for conducting
an attack. And social engineering is
most likely going to be about
impersonation.
That is pretending to be someone else.
Someone with authority or higher
privilege. Be careful that a human
attack vector can also use a cyber
attack vector if the victim is contacted
using email, instant messaging, social
media or is fooled into clicking some
malicious links. Remember when we said
that we could worry about a meteor
hitting our data center, but we usually
don't? Well, that's because of the
likelihood of an attack. Now, the
concept describes just how likely is an
attack to happen. And the first question
that should come up here is, are we
thinking about an attack as something
that we definitely know it can happen?
Is there something out there that is
actually threatening us or is it just a
a theory? Like we know there's a
probability but it never happened to us.
We don't know exactly when it could
happen, right? Might have happened once
in the past to some other company, but
it's not something that we actively feel
threatened by. Now, this kind of
question is sometimes blocking and
that's because likelihood in itself is a
very tricky question. No matter how
awesome and well standardized your
method of determining or evaluating
likelihood is well at the end of the day
all you will do will be just guessing
and you know hoping that your guess is
correct. Yes, there is such a thing as
an educated guess but it's still a
guess. Okay, it's still based on past
experiences and we all know that past
experiences can only do so much when
it's about predicting future outcomes.
Just ask anybody who ever put their
money into the stock market for example.
Finally, we can wrap up threat modeling
by figuring out the answers to some
additional questions uh like this one,
right? What would be the motivation
behind an attack? Like in crime shows,
do you know anybody who would want to
hurt you? Are you in an industry that
might attract something like activism,
for example? Uh did your company just do
something unpopular for the public
opinion? or did you just disappoint a
bunch of customers or investors? Right?
Do you have a track record of uh
historical data breaches sometimes in
the past that might make you an easy
target from now on? Uh do you host some
very sensitive data that would be
priceless to your competitors?
Another question would be how are
similar companies in your field in your
vertical defending themselves and how
have they been exploited before? Again,
this is just looking at past behavior
and trying to predict future outcomes.
Now, it doesn't work every time, but
it's a decent starting point. New
attacks, new methods are being developed
every day. Never assume that you can
know all the risks that you're facing.
Finally, how often do you see attacks
happening in your industry or even how
often did it happen in the past year or
so in your own company? Now, if this
doesn't help you necessarily with
predicting the types of attacks, it
might help you with accepting the fact
that at some point you will be the
victim of an attack. It is going to
happen. So, raise some defenses, right?
Think about contingencies.
How do you minimize the damage of an
attack that you did not see coming? All
right. Right. So, we've covered threat
modeling and all the questions that you
should try to answer in order to be able
to describe cyber threats. But threat
hunting takes this one step further.
Threat hunting is the actual activity of
searching. Now, looking for cyber
threats that might otherwise remain
undetected in your network. Now, the
infosc institute even says that cyber
threat hunting is very similar to
realworld hunting. It requires skill,
patience, creativity, and a keen eye for
spotting the prey. Well, in our case,
the prey is malware, and it's given away
not by a scent or by tracks in the
forest, but by system and network
abnormalities. So, if we investigate
whether we have already been
compromised, then we're going to look
for IoC's or TTPs. Now threat hunting is
also one of the best examples in cyber
security for a proactive approach. You
start investigating before you have the
proof that you've been breached. This is
completely different from the reactive
approach of incident response where we I
wouldn't exactly say wait but we do wait
for the incident to happen before we
deploy counter measures. So this is not
incident response people. So the
methodology of threat hunting or how you
actually do it relies on the fact that
you basically start from scratch. You
don't have any proof yet of any
compromise. So you need a very organized
approach. Now you might be thinking what
if I do have some proof, right? A
workstation behaving weird, some alerts
in the IDS, some logs in the firewall.
Well, yes, you can start from there, but
that's not going to be threat hunting
anymore. Those behaviors, those logs,
those alerts are events and they can
prove to be security events. So you're
basically already in the incident
response phase and that's not threat
hunting. That's not being proactive but
reactive. So the methodology for threat
hunting kind of looks like this. First
you establish a hypothesis. This is some
valid assumptions that are relevant to
us humans. Remember we don't have an
event or an incident to start from. So
where do we start from? Where do we
start looking? What do we start looking
for? Well, for this phase, we're going
to borrow one phase from the threat
modeling process. That's the phase where
we ask ourselves what's typical for us
for our business. How are we most likely
to be attacked? Okay, we use these
assumptions just to have a starting
point so we can have some specific types
of attacks to look for. Then we profile
the threat actors. Now we've already
seen how to categorize different types
of attackers and you already know that
they can be categorized uh using threat
intelligence you into a you know nation
states, activists, script kitties,
insider threats, whatnot. Uh decide
again as an assumption which of these
apply to you and try to narrow down your
search down to the remaining specific
methods or specific types of attackers.
Now then start the actual thread
hunting. Look for indicators of
compromise. Ideally most of this
information would be on your devices
already or can be generated by your
devices. A seam security information
event manager device can help you
tremendously here to process all that
huge amount of information and help you
make some sense out of it. Otherwise,
you need to devise some ways to manually
review log files and alerts or at least
filter out the huge amount of irrelevant
information. Uh, other very useful
sources for IoC's can be your endpoints,
your computers, your end user
workstations. investigate and try to
record information about network
traffic, workstation behavior, file
integrity checks, um any changes that
might happen in those workstations,
executable processes, who launches them,
when, what do they do after they launch,
right? And and so on. So why all this
effort when we don't even have any proof
of compromise yet? Because it's time
consuming. It takes a lot of time, a lot
of effort, and sometimes it's really
hard to justify it to top management,
right? So, for some non-technical
management uh people out there, it might
even look like you're pretending to
work. So, we better have some good
reasons behind this thread hunting. Now,
the first reason is to find out if
you've already been compromised. If you
have, the effort was so much worth it.
If not, congratulations. You get to live
another day. But it's a very important
reason because we have a huge number of
documented attacks and companies that
have fallen victims to such data
breaches, ABD attacks, and they knew
nothing about them. They were completely
oblivious to the fact that they've been
hacked. Many of them realized this only
after confidential information started
showing up on the public internet on
forums on on Bit Torrent. So it really
pays to be able to detect such a breach
or an attempted breach before it's too
late. Now threat hunting can also
discover unknown attack surface for the
purpose of minimizing it of course or
hardening it. You might not be aware
that you have some virtual machines,
some services open to the public
internet, right? Maybe someone forgot
about them during a migration or they
were brought up for testing and 5 years
later they're still up there forgotten.
Maybe your IT staff did not have the
necessary skills to disable some
unnecessary services. Maybe your users
have more permissions than they
currently need. So a permission audit
might be in order. And maybe you're
using some cloud services accessible
over the internet and you're not paying
enough attention to securing them and
accessing them. Another reason is that
threat hunting can drastically improve
your threat detection abilities. While
you're looking for those IoC's, those
indicators of compromise, you might
discover new weaknesses in your systems.
unpatched applications, default
credentials, known vulnerabilities, or
this process might simply teach you to
look for indicators that you might have
ignored up until now. Thread hunting
also provides additional security
intelligence. A threat hunting process
can demonstrate just how useful these
intelligence sources are for providing
actionable information. Not only you
using these sources of intelligence to
better defend yourself, but you can and
you should also contribute to them. Give
a helping hand. Now, threat hunting also
helps you identify critical assets. Not
to say that you don't already know
what's critical and what's not.
Hopefully, you do. But by analyzing your
security posture, you might find some
areas for improvement. perhaps some
additional controls or configuration
hardening that might be required. And
finally, one of the values of the threat
hunting process is actually having one.
That's because if an organization never
did something like this in the past,
they might not see the value in it. But
if they did it before and they
understood it at least one of these
benefits here then the next time you
won't have to convince everyone all over
again and you'll get all the benefits
too. All right. So for threat modeling
first understand what it is then think
about the questions that you need to
answer in order to describe your
threats. Then keep in mind for the exam
the adversary capabilities just as we
describe them in this video. Don't
forget that you need to determine your
entire attack surface and identify the
possible attack vectors. And finally,
understand why threat hunting helps by
making you act proactively. Thanks so
much for watching. Good luck on the
exam. Like, subscribe, and see you on
the next episode.
[Music]