[Music]
Hi everyone. This is going to be a
discussion about digital certificates.
Actually, it's going to be a discussion
about certificate management. And I want
to stress this uh because it's important
to understand that CISO plus doesn't
expect you to know everything about the
the life cycle of a certificate as in
how it is generated, how it is
maintained, how it is distributed, uh
what kind of algorithms uh go inside
that certificate, what kind of fields we
expect to find in the digital
certificate, stuff like that. That's not
the focus of the CISO plus that is part
of the security plus exam and learning
materials. All right. So just focusing
on CISA plus we're going to talk a bit
about how to manage uh digital
certificates. All right. Now hopefully
you already know that digital
certificates are the number one method
for authenticating or for proving the
origin or the identity of a of a person
of a piece of code of an email of a of a
website of a machine. But certificates
can also be used to facilitate uh
digital signatures and we can also use
them to help us with encryption of data.
Right? So let's have a better look at
this concept. All right. So we have
digital certificates and we can assign
digital certificates to people to
servers to signed codes or applications.
Uh but in order for anyone or any kind
of entity to trust them and to consider
those certificates as being valid and
useful, well, you need to recognize them
as valid. And they need to be digitally
signed by another entity that everybody
trusts. Just like a national ID card, if
you think about it, a a password or even
or even a parking permit or your
university or high school diploma. If
you trust the entity that signed that
document, then you're going to trust the
document as well and whatever the
document says. So for digital
certificates, we have CAS. Those are
certification authorities that are the
entities that issue those digital
certificates. Now, not all CAS are
trusted. In fact, you can actually
become a CA yourself by yourself in just
a few seconds. It's no big deal. You can
start publishing certificates, but
nobody would trust you because nobody
knows you. Well, you might be able to
convince some friends perhaps, but
generally if you go outside in the wild,
wild web and you start uh issuing
certificates, nobody is going to
recognize them because they're going to
see that, okay, they're signed by
Andrew. Who the heck is Andrew? I if I
don't trust the owner of that
certificate, why would I trust some
Andrew nobody on the on the web? So, we
need some method to fix this, right? We
need some method to ensure that at some
point we can start trusting some
authorities, right, that sign
certificates. So, trust has to start
somewhere. So one solution for this is
the fact that client machines like
operating systems that we're running on
our desktops or laptops, even our mobile
phones, even our smartphones come with
pre-installed so-called root CAS, root
CA certificates which are trusted by
default. Uh they use them to validate
websites that use HTTPS. That's why when
you visit uh Gmail or Microsoft or any
website basically nowadays, you're going
to see the lock icon in your browser
that says the the connection is secure,
the website is trusted and everything is
okay. You're you're safe to to provide
your your credit card details over that
uh encrypted connection. We also use
them in our computers to validate email
signatures. Now, no, not everybody signs
their emails, I know, but that's the
same process. Uh also VPN connections.
Sometimes when you connect to a VPN uh
VPN endpoint, you might receive a
message that says the uh the remote
location is not trusted or the
certificates is invalid. And this very
often happens especially in smaller
companies that use self-signed
certificates. When people try to connect
from the outside to that VPN endpoint,
they're not going to trust that
certificate or the the VPN client is not
going to trust the certificate. Now, you
might be able to override this and say,
"Okay, I know what I'm doing. just go
ahead and connect. But that's not the
secure way of um of of connecting over
an unsecure network such as the
internet. All right. So, just to recap,
we can use digital certificates to
verify identities for people like in
email signatures or for web servers, for
example, when you're accessing them
using a browser. We can use them for
non-repudiation. Remember
non-repudiation
is the inability
of someone of a person of an entity of
denying having sent a message. If we
trust that only that specific person has
the valid key that can be used to sign
an email message or to encrypt a
specific file, then there's no way for
that person to deny ever having done
that action because nobody else could
have done it in their place. So that's
nonrepudiation. This is also one of the
things that we we get, one of the
benefits that we get by using digital
certificates, electronic signatures.
Just like we said before, we can sign
our our messages. We can sign our code
as well. Whenever you're distributing
binary code or applications, to your
customers, to your clients, uh that
code, that signature attached to your
code, that's a confirmation for the end
user that the code actually came from
you and not from a malicious third
party. And finally encryption. Now
there's an entire discussion here going
from public private key cryptography. So
from asymmetric cryptography to
symmetric cryptography and what exactly
happens whenever you establish a secure
tunnel like an IPSec tunnel or or a TLS
tunnel that's beyond the scope of the
plus. Again this is also covered in the
network and security plus uh courses
from CompTIA. But suffice to say that
digital certificates can help us uh with
securing data sent over an encrypted
connection first by authenticating the
endpoint so that we can be sure that
Alice is communicating with Bob and
there's no nobody in between and
nobody's impersonating anyone and also
gives us a security environment where we
can decide what kind of encryption
method what kind of encryption key are
we going to use in order to uh send a
big amount of data a large amount of
data. Now some of the tools that you can
use to view your own certificates start
with the cert MGR utility in Windows
that's a certificate manager. So right
here we can see on the left hand side
that we have personal certificates
trusted root certificate authorities and
a bunch of other certificate categories.
For example, under the personal section,
if I collapse this one, I'm going to see
my own certificates and a couple of U
company certificates
that I've manually imported. The trusted
root certificates. Again, this is going
to include all the trusted CAS that my
computer knows about. So, if right now I
visit a an HTTPS website which is
directly signed by uh search sign. All
right? or it is signed by a CA that is
signed by search sign then I'm going to
automatically trust uh that website I'm
going to trust that connection another
way to view my current certificates my
personal certificates is by using the
sig check utility this one is available
within the CIS internal package freely
available from the Microsoft website so
sig check.exe-tv txe-tv.
All right, it's going to show me the the
trusted and valid certificates that I
currently have installed on my computer.
Now, apparently I also have a
certificate from Blizzard. Don't
remember playing anything from Blizzard,
but anyway, apparently this one is here
as well. All right, and as I just
mentioned, this is internal suit of uh
of utilities freely available on the
Microsoft website. I'm going to leave
the link in the video description. go
ahead and download that package because
it has a bunch of very useful utilities
for the Windows environment. One
additional thing to note is that some
applications will maintain a separate
certificate store just for themselves
like for example VPN clients or even web
browsers. So for example in Firefox if I
were to head to the settings section and
search for certificates right here right
I can click on view certificates and I'm
being presented with a certificate
manager which is completely separate
from what we saw before and this is the
set of certificates that is built in
every Firefox browser
so they're automatically trusted. Uh one
more interesting thing to remember is
the fact that there is something called
the certificate transparency framework
uh which is nothing else than a grouping
of major companies that agreed among
themselves to publish their own CA logs.
That is anybody could see actually with
what kind of uh domains what kind of
subdomains they've published
certificates for. So from a
reconnaissance point of view as an
attacker or as an uh a security analyst,
there's a lot of useful information that
can be discovered in these public logs
of the CAS as well. So go ahead, start
from this website right here and then
navigate to one of these major vendors
uh at the bottom. Also remember that
certificates might not identify a
specific entity just one specific server
for example because we do have two
additional types of special
certificates. The first one is called a
SAND that is a subject alternative name.
This is the kind of certificate that can
be used with other domains closely
related domains from the parent domain
for for which the certificate applies.
We can also use it if our website is
hosted on different uh IP addresses or
uh we want to also use it to validate or
use it as a signature for email or if
you want to create some subdomains for
email addresses. This is useful when you
have a certificate for your business but
you don't want to purchase another
certificate for each and every resource
that you're hosting. So it's a way to
use the same certificate for multiple
resources. Uh, and another kind of
certificate that kind of does pretty
much the same thing is a wildcard
certificate. This one is a bit more
broad because it covers a larger
spectrum of of possible domain names.
This one applies to all the subdomains.
For example, multiple unrelated hosts
that all belong to the same company.
Doesn't matter which host it is. So,
this one will attempt to automatically
validate or confirm the identity of any
entity that is under your control inside
of your company. Careful with this one.
It might apply to multiple completely
unrelated entities. It's going to make
forensics and and logging extremely
difficult because it makes it very hard
to identify which entity you're actually
talking to. But again, it's another
solution if you don't want to purchase a
specific certificate for each and every
subdomain or each and every resource
that you own. All right. So, from a uh
from an analyst perspective, from a
security analyst perspective, the daily
certificate management tasks are most
likely going to include things along the
lines of well, the installation of
certificates onto new network devices,
web applications, uh internal servers,
updating those certificates whenever
they need to be replaced or renewed. uh
validating the root certificates because
sometimes they get compromised and a
root key compromise means that all the
certificates ever generated by that CA
become compromised as well. Then of
course we're going to be focusing on
installing, updating and revoking user
and machine certificates. Be very
careful here uh with code signing
certificates, those that we use to sign
application code because they can be
used to push malware using properly
signed code. And just to give you an
example for this, what can you do if you
manage to get a hold of Apple's signing
certificates for their own applications
in the app store? Well, you get the
chance to put hacked applications,
malware applications onto iOS devices.
No, that's that's like the holy grail of
hackers, right?
And it actually happened not so long
ago. All right. Other than that, be very
careful with self-signed certificates.
They are very convenient because anybody
can generate them but they rely on user
awareness. They're they cannot be used
to validate any kind of identity because
if you're stating your own identity and
nobody can vouch for you then that
statement means nothing. Okay. Also
careful with self-signed certificates
because captive portals, especially
those in public Wi-Fi, you know, the uh
those wireless networks that redirect
you to a signing portal the moment you
you connect to that public Wi-Fi.
Captive portals usually have these
self-signed certificates in order to
inspect the traffic that you are
sending. Yes, they are doing
man-in-the-middle, but they will be
doing it only if you agree to accept and
install their own certificate. So,
careful with accepting certificates on
public wireless networks. Most likely,
it's going to lead to some
man-in-the-middle traffic inspection. It
might be it might be just to to secure
the web access, but it most likely it's
going to be malicious, especially since
most people when they see a warning and
it does have an accept button, they will
they will press the accept button
because they want to have internet
access. They don't really care what it
says. But anybody can create a captive
portal, including a hacker trying to
steal your credentials, right? you just
you just clicked on accept and continue
and you you've given all your traffic
from now on to be captured by the
attacker. Be sure to revoke untrusted
certificates as soon as possible. We
actually have two methods that allow you
to check if a certificate has been
revoked by its certification authority.
And those methods are CRL that is the
certificate revocation list which is
well just like the name says is the list
published by the CA that can be
downloaded and checked which includes
all the serial numbers of all the
certificates that have been revoked by
that CA. Now, of course, it's up to the
client, the the one that actually
validates uh any kind of certificates it
receives to download this list
periodically and well, double check all
those certificates if they're not found
in that list before accepting them. Now,
there are some problems with CRLs. Of
course, as you can see, downloading that
list every single time you need to
validate a certificate is not very
efficient or convenient. It's a lot of
overhead. And secondly, CRLs are most
likely not published instantaneously.
that is it's going to be a delay which
can range from a couple of minutes
perhaps to a few days or weeks uh before
the CRL is updated and another piece of
delay before the actual entities that
need to validate certificates think
about you know downloading an updated
version of that CRL. So it's not very
efficient. Uh some certificates might
get through even though they have been
revoked. So we have a better method.
This is called OCSP. This is the online
certificate status protocol and just
like the name says it's a way to online
verify if the status of the certificate
is okay or not if the certificate is
revoked or not. It's basically instead
of uh downloading the entire list of
revoked certificates uh you're running a
query and reply conversation with the CA
just by asking uh dear CA just please
let me know if this serial number has
been revoked or not and the CA replies
immediately. Now the behavior is a bit
high traffic is a bit more interactive.
So this might consume some resources on
both sides. So we do have some methods
of optimizing this by caching those
responses on our uh on the web server
itself and that's called OCSP stapling.
This on the other hand is a discussion
for the security plus training. Right?
So we don't need to know this for
decisive plus for decisive plus exam.
It's more than enough for you to know
the differences between CRL and OCSP.
And a couple of utilities you should
know about for managing certificates on
both Linux and Windows. We have OpenSSL
on Linux and search util on Windows. All
right, short discussion here about SSL
and TLS. As you hopefully already know,
websites that use HTTPS as communication
protocol, uh, which is a secure
protocol. Well, that protocol is secure
because it uses TLS in the back end. So
in order to be able to implement TLS, we
need the server to have a valid
certificate. Because when you're trying
to communicate with that server, your
browser basically receives that
certificate from the web server, checks
the signature on that certificate,
checks to see if the certificate has
been signed by a valid, a trusted CA.
And if it has been, then it's going to
trust that certificate and it's going to
trust the entire communication with that
website from from that moment on. Now in
the background what really happens is
after we're uh accepting that
certificate so we are validating the
identity of that website we are
negotiating some encryption algorithm
and some encryption keys that will be
used to transfer all the data between my
browser and the specific website. Now it
is also possible to have the client
authenticate itself with a certificate
as well. This is not often used but it
can be done so that the server trusts
the client as well. Usually the client
has other means of providing its uh its
identities like usernames, passwords,
you know, onetime passwords and so on,
multiffactor authentication but well one
of those factors could actually be
something that you have that something
being a certificate.
Most likely this feature is used in uh
VPN connections, not so much on the web
and in enterprise networks that require
this kind of mutual authentication. Now,
one thing to really understand here is
the fact that SSL from version 3.0 on
has become TLS version 1.0. Right now,
SSL by itself is not considered secure
anymore. Actually, not even TLS 1.0,
zero, but you should be seeing at least
TLS 1.2 on every website that you're
visiting, if not even TLS 1.3. So, don't
try if you're if you're managing a
website, if you're managing anything
that uses TLS encryption, try not to use
anything lower any u previous version
prior to 1.2. And god forbid that you
use SSL. Also, keep in mind that most
people still refer to TLS as SSL, even
though the real protocol in in there is
actually TLS, but we've gotten so used
to the SSL terminology that we still
call an encrypted HTTPS connection uh
HTTP over SSL. And that's just because
people have gotten used to the SSL term.
Now of course since we we said that the
protocol itself is used to negotiate
a specific encryption algorithm and
encryption key well the protocol itself
first has to be supported allowed on
both the server and the client. Uh which
means if you're using an older browser
and un a browser that hasn't been
updated in some time well the browser
might not know anything above TLS 1.0
01.1
in which case it depends on the website
if they agree to downgrade their TLS
version in order to talk using the same
version as the one supported by the
client. Most likely this this kind of
downgrade is not done for for malicious
purposes but it is performed so that we
can find the highest version number that
we can both use. Unfortunately, it can
also be abused. So an attacker can force
a web server to downgrade its encryption
algorithm down to the lowest possible
version. Why? Well, because lower
versions, older versions have
vulnerabilities in there. They're much
easier to attack. So careful with this.
You might have a website that by default
is going to present itself as TLS 1.2,
too. But there might be some settings in
there which you might have overlooked
that allow that website to downgrade to
very very old cipher suits and very very
old uh SSL versions even. Now since 2018
we have TLS 1.3 and it brought on some
uh some big improvements uh especially
regarding this downgrade attack. So it's
basically uh now preventing TLS from
ever downgrading to an unsecure version
and there are also changes in the
handshake protocol that is uh that is
performed between the client and the
server in order to reduce the number of
messages and speed up the uh the
connection. These types of
vulnerabilities given by the version of
SSL or TLS can be easily detected by any
vulnerability scanner or web application
scanner as these are among the first
things that a web server is going to
report to a client whenever they try to
initiate a connection. These are the
supported algorithms and supported
protocols that I can use. Pick one. And
just to end with a couple of examples,
we've got the searchert util utility on
Windows. You can ask for more
information using the dash question
mark. And you can see we have uh we have
this utility here that we can use to
generate certificates, enumerate them,
back up from the from AD, restore them
to AD, import certificate from external
files and so on and so forth. So we
really have a lot of functionality
within this very small utility and we
can also use it to list our own
certificates in our own certificate
store on local machine using the dash
store parameter. Now if you move over to
a Linux prompt here we have the open SSL
utility can prefix this using the man
command so we can access the man page.
And if we scroll down here, we can see
under the description that this is an
utility that we can use to manage the
creation of private keys, public keys,
uh public key, cryptographic operations,
creation of standard certificates, uh
CSRs and CRLs. So these are the
certificate signing requests. When you
you apply for a certificate, you want to
get a certificate. So you you basically
fill a form and you send it to the to
the CA in order for them to to generate
the certificate for you. and CRLs, the
ones that we've just talked about, you
know, certificate re revocation lists.
All right, so just remember these two
utilities for the exam. And one more
tool here that I want to show you, of
course, it's just one of the many tools
out there that you can use to check the
sanity and validity of the certificates
that you're using on your web
applications or websites, uh, is this
one right here from Digiert. Uh, you can
just click on this check SSL TLS
certificate button on the left. Now,
let's add something like uh, I don't
know, YouTube. All right, click check
here and just a couple of seconds here.
It's going to give us a lot of
information about who generated the
certificate for for YouTube, what kind
of validation we have, domain
validation, what's the algorithm type
that is being used, the key size, the
serial number, a revocation check method
here, by the way, OCSP, right? The one
that we've just talked about.
Let's see what else do we have here.
These are the SAS subject alternative
names. Remember these? Look how many of
them are right. They are all related, of
course, to Google and YouTube in some
way. And of course, at the very end of
the of the page, you can see if the
certificate is still valid. So, use this
one, especially if you own a website, if
you own a company, uh just perform some
sanity check on your on your
certificates from from time to time,
right? So, by now you should have a
pretty good understanding about what are
the generic certificate management tasks
that an admin is supposed to perform on
daily basis. And for the exam, make sure
you remember those special certificate
types like the SAND subject alternative
names and the wild card certificates.
Also, make sure you understand the
difference between OpenSSL and TLS. How
are they implemented and why the version
is relevant. Make sure you are able to
at least recognize a couple of the
command line utilities involved in
certificate management. And last but not
least, thank you so much for watching.
Like and subscribe and see you next time
when we're going to be talking about
mobile threats. See you.
[Music]