Imagine for like half a minute that
you're someone who wants to break into a
company at night perhaps. What are you
going to do? Well, you're going to
observe the perimeter of the building,
maybe the inside if possible, see what
are the personnel schedules, guards,
security cameras, anything that can be
used to detect your intrusion attempt.
Now, why do you have to monitor all
that? That's because all those things
are actual layers, defense layers that
you'll have to overcome in order to gain
access to that building. And that's the
exact same concept that we're going to
talk about right now. Defense in depth.
[Music]
So defense and depth is all about
designing your network or cyber security
in such a way so that you have different
layers of defense. so that if one layer
is bypassed the next control might
succeed in protecting you from the
attacker. Now an example of this might
be to have multiple firewalls from
multiple vendors so that if one
vulnerability gets exploited in one of
the uh one of the vendors products then
the other one might still keep the
attacker at bay. And generally the way
you should think about defense in depth
is to design your network, design your
security solution just like each
security control can and will be
compromised at some point. Then ask
yourself if this piece if this security
control gets compromised what are we
going to do? And another level of this
defense in depth approach is strictly
related to people that is your personnel
training sessions. awareness. Even
things like implementing multiffactor
authentication in your entire company so
that when people leave their passwords
written on sticky notes or they just
tell them to one another, they won't be
able to compromise their accounts
anymore because they do need two factors
to authenticate every time they use
their their file server or their email
or their VPNs. This is also where you
should think about implementing
separation of duties. This is a concept
that refers to the fact that no single
person, no single employee, not even the
CEO is going to have enough permissions
to do whatever they want. So consider
designing your critical business
processes so that at least two people
are involved in a decision. For example,
one should be an initiator and one
should be an approver or reviewer. So
that no single person is going to have
absolute power to do whatever they want
because that single person if they
become compromised or if they become an
insider threat then going to pose a real
danger to your company. Also be careful
about third party consultants or even
business partners. Most likely they will
have some level of access within your
network within your company and you
should consider them as a potential
threat. Don't give them more permissions
that they need in order to just do their
daily business. Mandatory vacations. And
that's another concept that might sound
funny, but it's actually critical to
avoid fraud and misuse of resources.
Mandatory vacations refer to the fact
that from time to time a specific person
that does a specific type of job should
be replaced at least temporarily like
for two weeks or a month of mandatory
vacation just so that any attempts at
compromising or of misuse of resources
or fraud could be detected just in case
that person was involved in some illegal
activity. And finally, don't forget
about succession planning. It does sound
cynical but you have to plan for
situations when key employees are lost
forever for any reason. What happens if
one single admin for example had access
everywhere knew all the passwords had
all the certificates maybe in its on its
personal device is unfortunately
involved in a car accident. What do you
do then? and try to train your HR
department as well because when they're
posting job openings, they might be
giving away a lot of information,
sensitive information about what's in
your network, your the vendors, the
devices, the technologies, the protocols
that you're using. You don't want to
make the job of the attackers any
easier. Now, defense in depth can be
applied to three different directions,
so to say. And the first one is going to
be the business processes in your
company. Which means basically how is
the data flowing within your company.
Which people are involved, how is that
data handled, how it is stored, how it
is transported and so on. Now
continuously try to look for weaknesses
in these processes. Look for any places
where attackers might try to exploit the
vulnerability. And don't forget to learn
from the previous trends. monitor how
your processes are working over time and
try to see if there's anything you can
improve security-wise so that you can
aim for some sort of a continuous
improvement process of your internal
data flow in your company. Second one
would be the technology part and this is
where you think about which specific
pieces of software or hardware can be
improved, replaced, upgraded, changed in
some way to improve your security
posture. Also remember the concept of
security as a service where you actually
outsource the security effort not the
security liability or responsibility but
the effort of analyzing designing and
making those changes in order to improve
your security posture. Finally, when it
comes to networking, very important to
constantly review your network design.
Everything starts from the way you
designed the network from the very first
day. Think about network segmentation.
segment out as many parts of the
networks as you can. So, separate
networks using VLANs, switches, layer
two switches, layer three switches,
using routers between different
networks, access rules, firewall rules,
dedicated firewall devices. Make sure
you absolutely know and you are always
in control as to how is the traffic
flowing within your company. Also
remember that this segmentation helps
you out a lot when an incident happens.
If an incident happens and a certain
part of the network is affected, a
welldesigned and well segmented network
will help you isolate that affected part
and keep the business running in the
rest of the network. The best way to
segment your network would be by using
something called SDN. That's
softwaredefined network where everything
that you design as a network segment or
a firewall policy or even a firewall
instance is designed in software in code
and you can reconfigure it on the fly
almost in instantaneously and even
better sometimes even automatically when
an incident is discovered. And of course
all the segmentation has to be done
after a careful decision about how you
plan to use your network. Which traffic
flows are required, which department
needs to communicate with which
department, which users need access to
which devices. In extreme cases, you
might even implement something called an
airgapped network. That is a network
that is completely at a physical level
disconnected from any other type of
connection, local or remote, not to
mention the internet. Of course, that's
a type of security that's usually a bit
extreme because it's going to create a
lot of administrative issues for you.
You won't be able to administer that
network from a remote location. You
won't be able to update the software
that's running in there so easily. But
it might be the only solution when you
are running devices or software versions
that have become obsolete, that cannot
be updated anymore, and which present a
real security risk if exposed to the
outside world. But also one last thing
when it comes to segmentation, don't
forget to keep it simple. Don't make it
too complex so that you won't even
understand how the traffic flows is
supposed to look like. Don't make it so
hard to understand that when somebody
comes after you, they won't be able to
understand what's the purpose of all
those firewall policies and NAT policies
and static routes that you might have in
there. So don't let it get out of
control. Don't make it too complex. Now
a configuration baseline is something
that you should definitely always have
in your network. And what a
configuration baseline is, it's actually
a definition of normal. What is normal
to you to yourself as an admin or to
your network or to your company. However
you are measuring yourself falls between
some values, some thresholds that define
what is normal. And the main idea is
that you need to know how things in your
network look like when everything is
okay, when everything is running in
order to be able to detect when
something goes wrong. So a baseline is
just a piece of information that says
this is how your servers or your
networking devices should look like.
This is how their configurations should
look like. Any new changes that you
perform to your network, moves, adds or
changes should have the baseline
attached. So for example for a new
server that you want to bring in or a
new virtual machine you want to create
this is how the process list should look
like. This is how much network traffic
is expected to be generated um these
spikes in CPU usage and network usage
are normal every day after let's say
12:00 or something like that. Now, if
you don't know any of this, if you don't
have a baseline like this, then the job
of finding anomalies and actually
detecting attacks before they happen is
a job that you will hate because you
won't be able to prove anything. You
won't be able to compare anything to
what is normal in order to determine
that there's something off happening in
there. And you don't have to over
complicate this either. You can start
very simple. A configuration baseline
can be as simple as a list of IP
addresses that you have in use in your
network. Maybe with the MAC addresses
that are associated in order to detect
rogue devices, devices that have no
place being connected to your network.
Uh let's say a list of services that are
expected to be running at any point in
time on your workstations or on your
servers. How much CPU or how much memory
is usually consumed by your devices?
what list of processes you expect, what
applications are whitelisted on your
workstations. So it doesn't have to be
something very complicated, but a little
information goes a long way. Now, of
course, we cannot mention workstations
without talking about system hardening
as well. Now, system hardening is a very
generic term. Basically, it means
reducing as much as possible the attack
surface of a device, which can be a
workstation, a server, a router, or a
switch, anything that's physically
connected to the network. And then
implementing some measures to properly
secure what's left running. So, you
minimize the attack surface. You're left
with some desired attack surface, right?
You do need to have some services
running in there maybe to to serve your
customers or to serve your internal
employees. And then you make sure that
you secure those points of connection.
Secure what's left to be exposed to the
network. Major vendors fortunately help
you out a lot here because most of them
will publish some well-defined hardening
guides. For example, if you Google
search for hardening Microsoft IIS,
you're going to find a lot of
suggestions for how you can harden not
only IIS actually, but you can search
for guides that help you uh securely
configure out of the box uh Windows
Server installations depending on their
versions, Microsoft SQL installations,
Linux servers, any type of service that
can be installed usually has, especially
it's a widely used service, they're
going to have a hardening guide attached
to them which basically is going to list
all the best practices from a security
point of view that you can follow in
order to have a as secure as possible
out ofthe-box installation. Also, you
have to keep in mind that sometimes not
all systems will be let's say patchable.
You won't be able to patch everything.
You won't be able to update everything.
That might simply happen because the
system or the version is just too old
and it it's not supported anymore by the
vendor. Uh it also might happen with
custom software which was developed
in-house or by some other company and
they haven't agreed to provide any
further updates or the company just went
out of business. It's also very
difficult for embedded systems and IoT
devices, especially because most of them
don't even have administrative
interfaces that allow you to overwrite
the firmware or perform some software
update. Some of them don't even allow
you to do basic configuration tasks.
When you're facing issues like these,
well, unfortunately, the only solution
is going to be something like installing
some sort of a compensating control or
mitigating control which in front of
those vulnerable devices in order to
restrict as much as possible the way
they are exposed to the outside world.
Now, just to briefly go over a couple of
examples that you will find in many
configuration hardening guides out
there. So you're going to find things
like deactivate non-critical components
like hardware components which are not
being used or services that are enabled
by default perhaps right after the
operating systems installation. Any
applications that might come by default
with the software component or with the
operating system but you are not going
to use. Uh also disable unused user
accounts. User accounts that are not
normally used can go unnoticed when
somebody suddenly decides to use them
because nobody's looking for any
information about those user accounts.
Of course, patch and update anything
that you can operating systems,
firmware, applications, anything that
can be updated. Most of the updates out
there are going to be focused on
security and less on features. For hosts
and workstations, make sure you restrict
access to peripheral devices like
external storage devices, media devices,
wireless connections like NFC or
Bluetooth if they're not needed. Don't
forget to configure user accounts with
the least privilege principle in mind,
right? Don't allow a user to perform
more actions that are required for his
or her job. Especially be careful about
privileges that allow users to download
and run or install additional software
on their systems. Make sure you enforce
access control lists on resources like
for file servers or databases for
example. Make sure nobody outside the
assigned departments or the interested
departments. And as far as host
protection goes, don't forget to install
some host protection software suits like
antivirus or hostbased IPS solutions on
your workstations.
And as you can probably see or guess,
patching and updating is pretty much
always going to be the number one
solution for all remediations that need
to be performed in your environment. And
what's interesting to note and to know
actually is that a lot of the exploits
out there, a lot of the attacks that can
be seen in the wild are taking advantage
of vulnerabilities that already have a
patch available, but they rely on the
fact that the users or the admins are
not so security concerned and they just
ignore those patches and don't apply
them in a timely manner. So don't fall
victim to an attack that has already a
solution just because you chose to
ignore the solution. And in any type of
company, patch management should be a
dedicated process and should be
integrated in your configuration
management processes. Now when your
network kind of grows, you might want to
think about including some uh testing
for newer patches because patches
sometimes crash systems or add new bugs.
So whenever you want to massively deploy
a new update to your workstations or to
your servers, make sure you have a
testing environment where you test that
patch first, see that it doesn't break
anything else and then decide whether
you're going to apply it to the
production network as well. And make
sure you remember for the exam at least
a couple of automated patching
solutions, things like Windows Update,
which I'm sure everybody's familiar
with. Another one being Windows Server
Update Services. It's an automated patch
installation method and also provides
you with a local repository of patch
information especially for larger
networks in the Linux environment.
Remember apt aptitude package manager
and yum package managers. Uh yam stands
for yellow dog updator modified. By the
way, I don't think that's going to help
you remember it, but you know just for
general knowledge. Nevertheless,
whichever solution you choose to
implement, make sure you have one. Make
sure you do have a patch management
solution. So always ensure that your
systems are up to date. Now there are
dedicated solutions that monitor the
state of your systems and warn you
whenever there's a non-compliance
detected on where wherever there's a
newer update available for some device
in your network. Some dedicated solution
like this like the Microsoft system
center configuration manager or endpoint
manager
are going to help you a lot and also
going to help you build that initial
inventory of asset that I've kept
reminding you of. All right. So for the
exam, make sure you understand the
importance of a configuration baseline.
Why is it important for our security
posture and why is it helping us detect
anomalies before an attack actually
happens? and also make sure you
understand the importance of
configuration hardening and just a
couple of the steps or at least a couple
of examples of what you would normally
do in order to harden a new server, a
new workstation or a new application
that you bring into your network. So,
thank you so much for watching. Don't
forget to like and subscribe and see you
on the next video.
[Music]