I'll be the first one to admit all this
business about change management. I know
it doesn't sound like the most
spectacular or glamorous topic in this
training because these are things that
you're supposed to do every single day.
And just like every other thing that you
do every single day, you know, like
brush your teeth, tie your shoelaces, uh
have breakfast, mundane tasks are not
spectacular by definition, but they
provide us with benefits every single
day. Right? So let's see how asset
change and configuration management can
provide us with great benefits and also
can help you with the size of plus exam.
[Music]
Now, you can probably remember that
we've briefly covered this before as
well, but the first step in protecting
what you own is knowing exactly what you
own. So, what exactly are your assets?
And then secondly, we have to think
about the question, well, what exactly
is important to us? So, what is the
definition of an important asset? And
well, the definition of important is
going to be different from person to
person, from company to company. But
long story short, important is something
that keeps your business going. So those
assets that the business as a whole
relies on. But since we're here talking
about cyber security and mostly about IT
infrastructure, then your assets will
most likely be somewhere along the lines
of, you know, routers and switches,
dedicated security devices, endpoints
like laptops or servers or fixed
workstations, mobile devices, and so on.
So basically, it's going to be pretty
much anything that you can connect to
the network and you can also hold it in
your arms or in your forklift arms
depending on the on the weight.
And to bring order to the madness,
because every company has a huge number
of devices to keep track of and not just
devices that are used by their
employees, but also infrastructure
devices, devices leased from other
vendors, devices leased from internet
service providers, for example, even
cloud services or or cloud applications
and licenses. Well, you have to have an
organized method of keeping track of all
this. And the first step here would be
something called asset tagging.
Now, asset tagging is simply about
assigning an ID, a unique identifier. It
can be as simple as a a number, a QR
code, a barcode, anything that uniquely
identifies that specific item in your
inventory. Ideally, this would also be
reflected in a physical tag attached to
the physical device. That's why you see
in a lot of companies laptops with QR
codes or identification numbers or even
RFID tags that automatically get scanned
by dedicated devices. RFID tags are
actually very widespread nowadays.
They're basically a chip that stores
some data about that asset. Now, RFID
tags are passive, which means they don't
require some battery, but they activate
when they come in the range of the
scanner. So the electromagnetic field of
the scanner actually communicates with
that RFID powers it up and then the RFID
tag returns some identification number
or unique data. Now without endorsing uh
any company or any specific person or
product, you can easily find example of
these tags online. You can find aluminum
tags, you know, tamperproof tags that
you cannot remove from those devices
once they're attached, barcodes, QR
codes, RFID tags, and so on. and of
course the uh corresponding scanners
that can work with those RFID tags. And
of course for all these asset tracking
and tagging, you should have a dedicated
management software that keeps track of
all these assets and the information
related to them. And when I say
dedicated management software, please
try not to hear Excel because I did not
say Excel, I said dedicated asset
tracking software. And the advantage of
a dedicated software is that you can
store as much as as little information
as you want in a very organized manner.
Things like the type of the device, when
it was purchased, where is the service
information attached to, so where do you
call when that device breaks, uh the
serial number, uh who's responsible for
it, who owns it, who takes it home every
single day, for example, and so on. And
among the benefits of asset tracking, of
course, we have the inventory part
because this is how you know what
exactly is in your company and what are
the assets that your company owns.
Secondly, we also have to think about a
inventory from a security perspective
because this is also a way of knowing
exactly what devices are we exposing to
the outside world. Not just to the
internet, but simply by know allowing an
employee to take a device home. That's
also an exposure. That's also an
increased attack surface. So that's also
a way of keeping track of how your
infrastructure, how your assets is
exposed to the outside world from a
security standpoint. Uh secondly, of
course, we have to think about warranty
information. When those devices break,
who do you call? What kind of response
time you can expect to replace those
devices? Of course, this is going to
depend on how critical the device is and
how much you paid for that extended
warranty and support.
and leasing information just in case
those devices are leased from another
company or from another vendor. Now, you
have to know when you have to return
them or when you have to replace them.
Again, without endorsing any specific
company or any specific product here
because I'm not being paid for this, uh
just to give you a real life example
here, Ref Tab, for example, has a great
inventory tracking software which can uh
I believe they also let you use their
software for free with limited
functionality, of course. So for example
in such an asset tracking software you
can create categories you know to group
your assets. Uh you can generate QR
codes and attach them to your assets or
barcodes or whatever type of code you
deem necessary for your uh your internal
management system. Uh you can attach
whatever information you deem to be um
relevant to your devices. You can also
keep track of consumable items and
accessories which is also a big big
problem. And we're not just talking
about ballpoint pens here, but you can
also keep track of things like Ethernet
cables, you know, tablets, printer,
toner, chargers, keyboards, mice, stuff
like that. You can also attach that
information to specific users. So, you
should always know who is responsible
for a specific device and who you should
contact if you want to get hold of a
specific device. And even though we
haven't specifically mentioned this,
asset tracking software actually covers
or can cover software as well because
software licenses are assets as well.
You pay for them, you own them.
Sometimes you just pay a subscription.
So you own them for just a limited
amount of time. And keeping track of
these licensing information is also very
useful. And of course, the last
functionality which everybody has and
nobody is excited about is the ability
to generate management reports and
inventory reports for all or specific
categories of assets in your inventory.
Now, the title of this video refers to
three topics, but they actually converge
into a single one. You're going to find
this under the generic definition of
change management. And change management
is very important not just for the exam
but also for the daily operations in
every company simply because every
company goes through a process of change
and you might think now about some you
know public sector companies which you
might think no those don't change those
never change well they do even if it's
just a small software upgrade a uh a
Windows update on the workstations or
even the introduction of a of a new
connection a new VPN connection a new uh
interco company link or a new
application, there's always going to be
change and change is a good thing,
right? Progress comes from change and
you know companies change on a daily
basis and because in most companies
there has to be a process for
everything. We have a process for change
management as well. And this process has
to exist because for every asset in an
ideal world there should be some record
about what was its initial state when we
purchased it. Right? Along with a record
of every other change that was performed
onto that asset during its lifetime, any
installations, any upgrades, any
replacements that have been performed
and all thoroughly documented. So that
is the process of change management. So
well change is good. It brings progress.
But why do you think there are people
who are quote unquote reluctant to
change? Well, that's because changes can
also bring in new risks. Changes can be
risky. And the grand purpose behind a
change pattern and process is the
intention to minimize this risk to
perform those changes without adversely
impacting operations to minimize the
risk of any change that we perform. And
since we are talking about cyber
security then this change management has
to include an assessment of the security
impact of the change as well. And we
have a concept here which might sound
very familiar to a lot of you and that
is the RFC which stands for request for
change. And the RFC is actually the
standard tool used for change
management. If you think about it a
request for change actually makes sense.
And ideally when a company wants to
perform any kind of change in the IT
infrastructure well there should be a
person who writes that RFC that requests
for change and documents some standard
elements. So at the minimum it should
include a description of the chain an
explanation of what is the expected
impact of that change what systems are
affected by that change and also an
assessment of the risks that might be
involved. And if we identify some risks
associated with that change, then we
also have to put in place a well-defined
roll back plan so we can come back in
time to the previous working state to
roll back the change if the change fails
or doesn't perform as expected from a
performance, security, availability
point of view. Doesn't matter which one.
But the idea is that you always need to
have a way to go back to how things were
before attempting that change. That that
is the definition of a roll back plan.
Now the RFC by itself is of course a
great idea. It's a great documentation
tool, but if things go bad, you need to
blame someone, right? So that's why the
RFC actually has to go through an
approval pipeline or an approval phase
where it must be approved by some, you
know, relevant authority before it is
implemented. Now, of course, this might
not be necessary for minor changes like
a a small update or the a change on an
IP address on some on some server or a
DNS update. That might just be a a small
approval between the IT engineer or the
security engineer and their manager. And
that might be just enough. But in case
of major changes, this is where we
involved in most cases in organizations
change advisory board that's the CAB who
should review and or approve or deny
that change. Also as part of the change
management process, we can automate this
especially for repeatable tasks like for
example if the uh storage engineers have
to you know change some hard drives in a
storage appliance every month or every
two months or so. Well, the RFC is still
going to be submitted, but it might be
automatically approved by the system
simply because it's a pre-approved
change that has to be done whenever you
know a hard drive fails. All right, so
some things to keep an eye out for when
performing these uh these changes in a
organized change management process. Now
the first thing is to be aware that some
changes might imply or risk downtime.
That is making devices, services or
applications unavailable. It might be
just a short downtime like 30 seconds or
2 minutes while the virtual machine or
the server simply reboots or it might be
a longer downtime when you update the
software and the server and the server
fails to boot, fails to start. And then
well you have to extend that downtime up
to the point where you can fix the error
and boot it correctly or you can roll
back to the previously working state.
And this is why you hear the term uh
maintenance window. Those are the
pre-approved time intervals which are
usually wide enough to cover any
unexpected situations or errors you
might run into. Every time you want to
change something in the infrastructure
and especially if it's something
critical, you announce that maintenance
window so that everybody knows well
between 4 and 6 p.m. you know that
application might not work correctly.
Don't rely on it. Try not to depend on
it in that specific time interval. Now,
if the change takes just 5 minutes, then
by all means, congratulations.
Everything worked fine. If it doesn't
work fine after the first five minutes,
well then you have almost two hours to
decide whether you can fix it or roll
back to the previously working state.
Now a change can also cause a decrease
in functionality. It might just
partially affect the functionality of
some systems or it might affect their
performance. For example, updating the
software but keeping the same hardware
might not result in the same performance
as you were used to having before the
update. And don't forget that you have
to think about the security part as
well. Uh the update or the change might
create some security issues or they
might increase your attack surface from
a couple of reasons. For example, some
software update might reset your
previously configured security settings,
exposing more of the application or of
the service than you previously intended
to expose. Secondly, if you add
something new to the network or replace
a device in the network, you might have
to do some security tasks as well like
install some additional security
software on that server or in that
workstation or update some security
rules or firewall rules on your security
networking devices just to make sure
that all those new assets are still
covered by the same security policies as
the rest of the network. And it makes a
huge difference if all this process is
reactive that is we just make the change
and hope for the best and hope that
nothing breaks and if it breaks then
we'll see what we do and being proactive
which is having a well-defined plan
documented plan with solutions to not
exactly the worst case scenarios but any
scenario that isn't the best case
scenario. Right? So every time that
something fails or doesn't work as
expected, you must have a plan for
dealing with that exceptional situation.
Don't forget about roll back procedures.
We already covered these. Make sure you
have a way of going back in time to the
previously known and working
configuration. And ideally whenever you
make a major change before rolling it
out, deploying it to all your employees,
to the customers, try to run it to
deploy it in a controlled environment.
that is a test environment maybe with a
limited number of users or even in a
sandbox that is a controlled hardware
and software environment where you can
analyze in detail how that update
behaves and if it works properly as
expected. And finally the last category
which again kind of merges into the
grand concept of this video here is
called configuration management. And
it's not so different actually from the
other two because configuration
management is is actually concerned only
with tracking operating system settings
and device configuration. So we're
talking from a purely software
perspective about the configuration of
our devices that are connected to the
network. So for servers you would
probably want to track operating system
settings. For networking devices, you
will most likely want to track their
configuration files, their running
configuration files. For endpoint
devices, for workstations and laptops,
you might want to track any Active
Directory settings that are being pushed
towards those devices. And also the list
of software, for example, that is
running that is allowed to run on your
workstations. And you probably remember
that we've mentioned baselining before
because baselining is a very important
concept in configuration management. If
you don't have a baseline in knowing
what exactly to expect and what exactly
is the normal state of things in your
network, in your servers, in your
workstations, in your networking
devices, then you won't be able to
detect any anomalies on any
misconfigurations that might happen
accidentally or intentionally by some
malicious attackers into onto your
network. For example, if the
configuration of a system has changed
right after an update, then a CIS admin
can compare the running configuration of
that device to some well-known and
predefined baseline to find out exactly
what are the uh the differences between
what we had before and the newer version
after the update. And if we need to fix
something, right, if if we for example
just have just increased our attack
surface by enabling some unnecessary
additional services. And when it comes
to tracking operating systems and
applications, versioning is a very
important concept because versioning
allows us to pinpoint an exact instance
of that software that is running on our
devices. I know it sounds basic, but
it's something that you have to keep
track of. And you probably know with
versioning, we have, you know, major
versions, minor versions, and usually if
there's a third number in there, that's
going to be an a minor patch or a a
minor update version. And versioning as
basic as it sounds is actually a great
tool for tracking the status of the
software that's running in your
environment and also of the firmware of
the low-level firmware that's running on
your devices. Now ensuring that way that
whenever change occurs that change is
desired and it's performed in a
controlled manner so that we can
minimize the risks to our daily
business. All right. All right. So, for
the exam, make sure you understand the
importance of asset tagging,
configuration management, and change
management. Understand why they're
important for an organization because
they're going to help you every single
day and on the ISP plus exam as well.
All right, so thank you for watching.
Don't forget to like and subscribe and
see you next time when we'll be talking
about software coding best practices.
See you.
[Music]