Trend analysis is a very simple but very
important concept for the CYOP plus exam
and that's precisely why we're covering
it in a separate video right now. And
it's important because just when you
think that you're in control, that's
when something new happens and surprises
you. And surprises are not something
that you wish for every single day when
you work in cyber security. So let's
learn in a couple of minutes how not to
focus just on the details but also on
the bigger picture.
[Music]
So trend analysis is a way to look at
the past, look at some information from
the past, try to learn from it, and then
try to infer, to deduce, to predict
somehow the future. Now, trust me, this
is going to work much better with
security and computer systems than it
does with the lottery or the the stock
market.
It's basically a way to be proactive and
try to predict what might happen which
is completely different from being
reactive. And being reactive is what
we've seen when we implement incident
response. So this is not incident
response. This is trend analysis. And
even if it sounds a bit metaphorical,
trend analysis is not just about
predicting the future, but it can also
help you understand the past better.
Because after an event has happened, has
passed, as time passes on, you might be
able to find more information, gather
more information about that event. And
that information can lead you to better
understand what happened in there, what
kind of vulnerabilities were exploited,
and basically what you would need to do
in the future to avoid similar
situations like those. All right, but to
build a trend out of some metrics, we
first need to collect those metrics. So
what exactly do we need to look for?
Well, we can start by looking at
frequency based metrics. For example,
how often do login failures happen in
our network in our systems or how often
the network traffic spikes and how big
is the spike right or in which work days
does it happen at which hours and so on.
Uh we can also look for CPU usage spikes
on workstations for example as well.
Also on the frequency based metrics we
can look for the number of errors. How
many errors are generated in a normal
day, per minute, per hour or per day by
a specific service or by a specific
application. Generally, you gather this
information or use a tool specialized
for this and you calculate the mean and
look for outliers. That is points with
very high or very low deviation from
that mean. Those are the points that are
mostly going to interest you because
those are going to be the exceptions.
Then we can start looking at volume-
based metrics. And volume based
basically means instead of how often an
event happens, just look at how much of
a specific item of a specific resource
is consumed. For example, how many logs
are generated normally during one day or
how many events, login, logout events,
file access events or anything else that
you can monitor are generated in a
specific time frame. Network traffic
again a very important metric. We need
to understand how does network traffic
normally look like. what is a normal
volume of traffic during a workday. And
logs are always a very rich source of
information, not just because they
contain a lot of useful information, but
also because we can monitor how often
our logs generated. If our logs grow in
volume faster than they previously did,
then that's a good indication that
something major has happened inside of
the network. Maybe we have some um some
additional traffic, some additional
applications that we know nothing about.
Maybe we're infected with malware that
tries to access and brute force some
login somewhere in the network.
Nevertheless, a sudden increase, a
sudden spike in log generation in any
system, in any network is always a very
good reason to investigate. And of
course, there is going to be a bit of
work here because we're not just going
to collect a bunch of information and
immediately infer something out of it.
We're going to try to normalize that
information and try to group similar
events together so that we can look for
suspicious events that were recorded
outside of what we consider to be
normal. So standard deviation is going
to specify how close are values in a set
to their averages or their means. Now
similar events of course can be
statistically grouped together because
that's going to be the best way to
immediately detect those outliers that
might warrant some investigation. And an
interesting u idea is the fact that
trend monitoring can also help you get
more information out of your alerts out
of the system that are generating alerts
non-stop. Because a very big problem
with most monitoring systems that we
have in our networks is that they
generate just too much information.
There are just too many alerts. We don't
have enough manpower to process them all
and to filter the noise from the useful
information. So what usually happens in
these situations is one of these two
scenarios. First the security admins try
to tune down the sensitivity of those
alerts so that they don't get
overwhelmed. They don't get so high a
number of alerts which makes of course
uh smart attacks like those slow or
sparse attacks go unnoticed simply
because they don't generate any alerts
anymore due to their uh low sensitivity
of any sensors or simply they get
ignored because nobody has the time to
look through 50,000 alerts every single
day if or maybe there's some useful
information in there. So another I would
say perhaps unexpected thing to track
might actually be how many alerts were
actual security incidents and perhaps
going even a bit deeper into what was
the incident response time for those
events. In other words, use trend
analysis to determine how well you are
at performing your cyber security job.
Now, that might be useful, of course,
for your daily cyber security business,
but also for your next evaluation or pay
raise. Why not? And don't forget that
trend analysis can also help you out
tremendously with audits and preparation
for compliance audits. Now, if you
periodically scan your network to
determine any trends in performance and
security, well, then you will already
have everything ready for a security or
compliance audit when time comes. You
will already know how well you will
comply. And generally, at least from
time to time, try to compare any
security trends that you find within
your organization, your company, your
network with some industry standards or
information that's from the outside
world. Basically, try to find out if
there's anything else happening out
there that applies to you and to other
companies similar to you. Try to
validate those trends that you've
detected within your company and see if
they fall into the normal ranges, the
expected ranges for other companies like
yourself. Now, this information can come
from a number of sources and there's no
single centralized location where you
can just go and compare your trends with
everybody else other than Facebook
perhaps. But this is going to be about
cyber security. So one first destination
you can uh you can pick is going to be
for example the SAS institute website
which provides a lot of security
resources and a lot of information about
any vulnerabilities that are currently
out there. Another one is dark reading
uh an interesting source of article
about new hacks and exploits out there.
Microsoft is uh publishing a defender
security intelligence report and
actually not just Microsoft but any uh
security vendor out there is going to
periodically publish their own uh white
papers, their reports about the current
trends and current state of affairs in
the world of cyber security. For
example, Fire Eye with a list of recent
zeroday exploits, threat intelligence
reports as well. Alien Vault as usual
they provide a lot of information in a
threat intelligence digest.
Semantic also provides you with a lot of
security intelligence secure works and
of course Cisco which hosts Talos
intelligence going to provide you with a
lot of information about current
vulnerabilities out there. Now most
vendors you're going to see that they
pretty much publish the same
information. Most vendors know about the
same threats out there. And that's not
necessarily a bad thing because, you
know, validating the same information
from multiple sources, it's always going
to make it more reliable. But keep in
mind that many of them are also
publishing this information to promote
their own security products. Well,
that's also not a very bad thing because
basically, you know, you're going to
find out about a vulnerability or some
type of attack that is magically
mitigated by a specific box or security
solution from vendor X, Y, or Z. That's
not a bad thing, but try to filter out
the marketing information in there and
try to understand what is relevant to
you and to your cyber security business.
Now, of course, there are drawbacks to
trend analysis as well. And the number
one actually the only drawback to trend
analysis I would say is the fact that
it's very timeconuming requires a lot of
resources requires a lot of dedicated
effort. So there are automated tools
that can at least partially do this job
for you and number one on this list is
going to be I think it's probably the
third time I'm mentioning this during
this training and these are going to be
the seam solutions the security
information event manager solutions.
They can help you not just with
collecting that information because
that's what seam solutions do by
default, but they're also going to help
you plot some previous historical trends
and also try to infer some information
and run some what if analysis in order
to predict some future trends at least
in the very near future. And as I
usually say during these trainings,
don't forget about the people. I know
you don't normally forget about them,
but keep them in mind for trend analysis
as well because there's another type of
trend. How wellrained is your staff? How
well trained are your employees? Because
people come and go, technologies change,
infrastructure changes. The level at
which your staff, your employees are
prepared for facing a cyber attack might
not be the ideal one that you want to
believe. So try to periodically train
your employees in cyber security and
test them periodically as well with at
least a small fishing campaign just to
see where you are right now and try to
avoid any unpleasant future surprises.
So the bottom line here is a short one.
Understand trend analysis, why it is
useful, what type of metrics you would
normally look for, understand why a seam
solution can help you out with trend
analysis, and don't forget to like,
subscribe, and good luck on the exam.
Thank you.
[Music]