All
[Music]
right, next up, passwords. Now, password
topic is a huge one, but a beautiful
one. So, let's see. How would you go
about breaking a password? What would
you do? Now, the first one that might
come into mind is an online brute force.
It's called online because we're
interacting directly with the
authentication server and it's brute
force because we're basically attempting
to send every possible password
combination hoping that we're going to
hit the right one. Now, this is not
going to work. First of all, it might
take you longer than the rest of your
life. And secondly, it's extremely
noisy. Everybody can detect this
attempt. All right, so you're going to
think, let's make this more efficient.
Why not just hack the server and just
steal all the passwords in there? Well,
that's also not going to work because in
most cases, if not in all situations,
passwords are not stored in clear text
in any Linux, Windows environment or in
any web application or they should not
be stored in clear text. And that's
because passwords are not stored in
clear text but as hashes. Now a hash is
the result of a mathematical operation
that takes any kind of input and
produces a fixed length output
preferably unique for each type of input
that was provided. So think of the hash
as some sort of a fingerprint of that
input data. And very importantly this is
one way we can only hash the original
data into the resulting fingerprint. we
can never obtain the original data back
from that fingerprint. So generally the
process of obtaining these hashes from
an authentication server and attempting
them to to crack them on your own time
on your own machine. This is considered
to be an offline attack. You just grab
what you need and then go home and do
your homework. That's offline attack.
Trying to crack those hashes and figure
out which passwords were originally used
to generate them. And of course we do
need to mention this. this comic here as
well because well, social engineering is
going to beat any cyber security
attempt, any penetration attempt every
single time, no matter how
technologically advanced it is. The
human link is the weakest link. So, so
when trying to breach a system, when
trying to breach security, you're going
to have the most chances with a social
engineering attempt. But that's not
exactly our focus this very moment. So
coming back here to our first method,
the first one was brute force, which is
basically just a way of trying
attempting as many password combinations
as we can. Now this is going to be
really difficult to to perform on a live
system. So as an online kind of attack,
this is probably not going to work.
Well, simply because it's going to take
you a very very long time. And of
course, you could do this manually if
you want. You could try, you know,
attempting password one, password 1, 2,
password 1, 2, 3, and then keep going
until you realize that this is not the
best approach. So, we're going to have
some automated tools that can do this
for us. Some example here would be, for
example, Medusa. We can use Medusa to
brute force into specific services. We
can load specific modules right here
with the -m parameter for FTP, SSH,
HTTP, whatever type of service we want
to crack and then specify the list of
target IP addresses, target usernames
and target passwords to test. So we can
either use predefined lists of usernames
and passwords or we can use Medusa to
perform brute force attempts using full
char sets for example all the alphabet
letters or the numbers or the the
punctuation characters and so on for
passwords at least. Another one is Hydra
which can also be used to brute force
into a number of services can also
provide the list of login usernames
potential passwords
and you can also see here the supported
services
and I'm sure you're going to recognize
at least a few here for example HTTP get
or post SSH
SNMP SMTP Windows SMB MySQL and so on
and so forth. It's just a simple example
here at the bottom. How easy it is to
use Hydra with a predefined user list
and a potential password list here. Try
to crack into this FTP server. And
another one is John the Ripper, also
called just John. That's it. Brute force
utility for password cracking. And
finally, a very powerful tool is
hashcat. Also for password cracking, if
we want to know more about hashcat,
we're going to have to open the manual
page. And among all the parameters here,
we're going to find some interesting
stuff like the char sets or the
character sets that it can use for pure
brute force or the attack mode. Now,
straight is going to use a simple list
of potential passwords that you can
provide. Combination is going to mix and
match brute force with that specific
list, that dictionary list, pure brute
force, and you're also going to see the
types of hash supported. And this list
is absolutely huge. You can see it start
with MD5, Shaw one. You can probably
recognize a couple of here. Uh, NTLM for
uh for Windows hashes, SHA 256, SHA 512,
and so on and so for Cisco, PixASA, WPA,
WPA2 for Wi-Fi,
even Android pins. So, it does support
quite a wide array of hashes that you
can choose from. And generally, as you
can see from most of the options in
these utilities, they support two
approaches. One of them is by using char
sets. That's character sets. You're
simply iterating through the entire
alphabet. And then all the combinations
between alphabet letters and numbers and
punctuation signs and spaces and so on.
Now the other approach is by using a
word list also called a dictionary.
That's because most passwords at least
those that are generated by humans will
be built by using some sort of a
dictionary word. If it's I don't know,
maybe it's a birthplace, a person's
name, a pet's name. It might be some a
superhero's name. It might be something
that can be found as a as a legitimate
word in a dictionary. Now, normally we
are going to have a hybrid approach
where we try to crack passwords by
combining these dictionary entries with
charet combinations so that we can also
find passwords like Superman 123 or uh
New York 86, you know, examples like
that. But the more complex the approach,
the more time is going to take you to
break that password simply because
you're going to have so many
combinations to try. And if you're doing
this as an online attack, as in you're
interacting directly with the
authentication service, it's probably
not going to work also because you're
going to have a huge delay in each
authentication attempt. So, think about
it. For example, if you log in into
Gmail or into Facebook and you and you
input your password wrong, how quickly
do you receive the response that your
password is wrong? It's pretty fast, but
it's not instantaneous. It's still going
to take you like 1 second. Well, 1
second is huge when you need to try one
trillion password variants or password
combinations. So, it's simply not
feasible. Now, the second reason why
this is not going to work is because, as
I said before, this approach is very
noisy. It can easily be detected by any
kind of application. any type of
authentication server, anything can
detect a high number of login of failed
login attempts from the same user from
the same IP address in a short time
span. This is a big indicator of a brute
force attempt. If it's not detected by
the application, it's going to be
detected by the firewall or by some IPS
device. It's most likely not going to be
feasible in real life anyway. And if you
get detected doing this, there are kind
of two approaches that most applications
take. One of them is by implementing a
backoff. Uh try to mistype your phone
spin a couple of times in a row, right?
Just type something something random in
there. Now, you're going to see that
after a couple of attempts, the phone is
going to tell you back off for a couple
of seconds. You can try again in 10
seconds. If you fail again, you're going
to have to try again in 30 seconds. If
you fail again, you'll have to wait five
minutes or more. This is exactly
designed to thwart these brute force
attempts. Now, in a more public
environment, for example, a public login
page on a website, this might also
translate into a permanent or temporary
ban on your account. If you failed your
login too many times in a row, you might
get your account blocked. So, you might
need some admin to intervene and, you
know, unlock your account before you can
try again. Again, this is not going to
work for a brute force attempt. So, we
talked about hashes a number of times
already. Let's just make sure that
everybody here is on the same page. Now,
a hash is just a mathematical operation
that transforms any set of data as an
input to a fixed length unique output
string. Let me show you how this works.
Now, hashing algorithms are public and
wellknown, which kind of means that you
don't really have to implement anything.
You just have to use them as they are.
They're standardized and you can access
them online. You can uh find command
line utilities, small utilities on
Windows or Linux that can calculate
these hashes for you. You can just start
online and search for hash calculator.
That's it. All right. Doesn't matter
which one you choose here. Uh let me
just find a random one here like I don't
know online MD5.com. You can pick
whichever you you want. We scroll down
here. There's a hash generator for text.
All right. We have MD5 selected as the
hashing algorithm which stands for
message digest 5 by the way. And you can
see here here that we can provide any
kind of input as text. So if I just type
I don't know one that's it. That's going
to be the resulting hash of number one.
Pretty weird right? I mean how did you
get this from one? Now if I type two
that's going to be a completely
different type of hash. Now if I type
for example password in here that's
going to be a different type of hash. If
I type password one the hash changes
entirely. If I change password one to
password two again, the hash is going to
change entirely. And it doesn't even
matter what kind of input I have in
here. I mean, I can just, I don't know,
go ahead and copy the first paragraphs
of, you know, the Tesla article from
from Wikipedia and just paste it in
here. My hash is still going to be
calculated and it's always going to be
the exact same length. And it also
should be unique. that is changing one
single character in this text should
provide me with a completely different
hash value. Now another website that you
can use to compare different types of
hashes is uh this one right here. So uh
let's add a password one two three right
as a hash string. Let's calculate this.
And at the bottom of the page you're
going to see pretty much all the hashing
algorithms that we are using nowadays.
Uh some of them have been deprecated of
course because they're old and
considered not so secure anymore. Uh but
you can find MD5 in here which is 16
bytes in length which is 128 bits right
that's the that's the MD5 hash value in
here Shaw 1 which is 160 bits bit larger
SHA 256 which is I'm going to let you
guess how many bits that is uh Shaw 384
512 and so on and so forth you can hear
see that there are a bunch of hashing
algorithms available um available
nowadays that's a very quick way of
generating uh a valid hash from an uh
from an text input or from a file. You
can see you can also upload files in
here as well. It doesn't matter what
kind of input you provide. You can just
provide a a string input. You can upload
a 4 GB ISO file. It's still going to
return a hash output of the same fixed
length. I mean, you can even do it on
the command line if you want. So, for
example, uh let's say if I want to echo
Iron Man. So that's the let's say that's
the password that I'm going to use and
then pipe this to something like MD5
sum right you can see it right here we
have MD5 sum uh the same we're going to
have access to utilities that calculate
Shaw so have Shaw 1 Shaw 5126
and so on right so if you just pipe this
to MD5 sum that's going to be the MD5
hash that you get from Iron Man now one
gotcha here one caveat if you are
generating hashes like this keep in mind
that The echo command also adds a new
line at the very end. So whenever you
just echo Iron Man on the screen, you're
going to see that the the output jumps
to the next line and you get the the
Linux prompt again. Well, that's because
the it's not exactly just Iron Man, it's
Iron Man plus the new line character at
the end and that character also gets
hashed. So if you want to skip that that
character and just hash the actual
letters that you're seeing on the
screen, add a dash N to the echo
command. Now if you output this, you're
going to see that the the hash actually
changes, right? So there are different
values here because between this iron
meta and this one here, there's one
extra character which is the new line
character. So careful with this in the
command line if you want to prepare your
scripts for example for uh your
calculating hashes. If you check the
manual page for echo, you're going to
see that the first option here is do not
output the training new line. So that's
exactly what we did right here. Also,
one thing that's mandatory for a good
hashing algorithm is that it's supposed
to be irreversible. So there should be
no way of determining the original text
or the original content from the hash
value which is also why we use them to
store passwords. So we never store
passwords in clear text. We hash the
password. We store the hash and whenever
the user comes in and wants to
authenticate. We recalculate the hash of
whatever password they're providing and
then we compare it with the one that
we've stored. So we're just comparing
hashes. We're never comparing passwords.
And this is also great because nobody
can have access to a user's password,
not even the admin or the root user
because they are simply not visible.
They're not there. The password is never
stored in clear text or it shouldn't be
stored in clear text. Uh regardless if
we're talking about operating systems or
web applications or any type of of
application, uh you're never supposed to
store a user's password in clear text.
So basically, this brings us to the
problem of what does cracking a password
actually mean? Since we cannot find the
actual password on stored on that
server, then cracking a password
basically means finding the original
string that generated the hash that is
stored on that server. Now, we also have
to address the problem of hashing
collisions. And think about it this way.
So, an MD5 hash has 128 bits. How many
possible combinations can you have with
128 bits? Spoiler alert, a lot. But
think about it from the other side or on
the input side. If you're providing any
kind of input that produces a 128 bits
output, let's say you're providing a 1
GBTE file as an input, one terabyte file
as an input. How many bit combinations
are possible with a 1 TBTE file? Well,
again, a lot, but much much more than
the possible combinations in the hash.
So which brings us to the problem of how
likely it is that we could find two
different inputs that can produce the
same hash output. And the answer is
sometimes quite likely simply because we
have so much potential input that has to
fall into a unique 128 bits of value.
There's always going to be for each
hashing algorithm at least two kinds of
input at some point that will produce
the same hash output. And that's what we
call a hash collision. Two different
inputs producing the same hash output.
Now, why is this relevant? Well, think
about the fact that we're using these
hashes to store passwords. Well, what if
we can find alternative input that
produces the same hash output? Can that
input be used as a valid password? Yes.
The answer is yes. because the system
doesn't look at the password only look
at the resulting hash. So if the hashes
match it's okay from the systems
perspective you are providing a valid
password and actually this is something
that has been uh studied before in
statistics is it's called a birthday
paradox and the problem kind of says
like this how many people do you need to
have in a single room in order to have a
50% chance of any two of them sharing
the same birthday how many do you think
and you know many people would think
about well 365 days in a year maybe I
don't Oh, 50% chance maybe half of that.
Maybe 180 or something like that. Well,
no. The answer is just 23. The trick
here is that we don't need two of them
to have a specific same birthday, but we
need them to have any birthday as long
as they both share it. If you increase
this, actually, if you go up to 30
people, the chances grow tremendously up
to 70%. If you go up to 70 people, it's
almost 100% confidence. And that's
exactly what happens with hash
collisions as well. Basically, the more
hashes you can try, the better chances
you have to find such a hash collision.
And actually, the the bad news here is
that you don't even have to try that
much, right? Because your chances grow
quite fast. And that's exactly the
reason why many of the hashing
algorithms that you've seen on the
previous web page have now been
deprecated because they have been proven
to be very vulnerable to birthday
attacks like this or collision attacks
which make them completely unsafe for
storing sensitive information or for
hashing sensitive information like
passwords. So, for example, if we were
to rely on finding hash collisions, you
know, I my maybe my password, which is
password one, two, three, is going to
generate this MD5 hash right here. I'm
going to store this hash. But who's to
say that if I use the I really like
cheeseburgers with barbecue sauce
password, is not going to generate the
exact same hash value. Or even better, I
don't know, maybe the first episode of
The Mandalorian is going to generate the
same hash output as my password one two
three input, right? They are all
potentially valid passwords. Now, if
you're able to upload the Mandalorian
within a password field, that's going to
be some tremendously awful input
validation on that website. So, probably
that's not going to be one option, but
you get the idea here. And you get the
potential repercussions of hash
collisions. And since we're talking
about files, the problem with hash
collisions is not necessarily restricted
to storing passwords. Because in many
situations, cyber security tools like
antivirus, anti-malware,
uh advanced, you know, intelligence
software that looks at file behavior on
your machine and scans those files is
going to rely on file hashes. So many
enterprise solutions actually don't scan
your files at all. They just hash those
files and then use an online reputation
service to search that hash value and
see whether it matches a uh a malicious
file or if it's has been scanned before
and has been validated that it's okay.
It's it's not malicious. Now, having
hash collisions in a security
environment like this could potentially
allow an attacker to upload and execute
their own malicious code by crafting a
malicious file that matches through a
hash collision a well-known good
reputation file. Now, we've seen in a
previous demo with the cane password
cracking how long computing hashes in
order to break passwords can actually
take. Now fortunately or unfortunately
depending on the side that you're on uh
we do have a better solution for this
and that one is called rainbow tables.
Now rainbow table is just a file with
premputed hashes for all possible
character combinations that can be used
as passwords pre-calculated and stored
in a sort of a database. The idea behind
a rainbow table is that we're shifting
the computing effort from calculating
hashes to searching into a huge
database. And they can be actually be
huge. I mean, we're talking about
hundreds of gigabytes in size, if not
even terabytes, that store all the
possible password combinations
calculated with a single hash algorithm.
So yeah, of course you're going to need
different rainbow tables for different
hashing algorithms. Of course, somebody
has to create these tables beforehand.
So somebody has to dedicate a huge
amount of processing power into building
such tables so that you later on can
just search quickly search through these
through these databases. Now you have
the options of downloading these tables
if they have been previously generated
by somebody else or you can just
generate them on your own on your own
machine. Now, there are a few places
online where you can just download these
Raven tables for free. This is one of
those websites. So, for example, you can
download NLM hashes, Shaw one hashes,
MD5, LAN manager. I'm probably not going
to need this anymore, but uh you can see
that even for MD5, which is a quite
short hash, just 128 bits long. Uh the
entire data set here is 4.3 terabytes in
size. You can basically choose which
type of rainbow table you're going to
have. So, for example, if you're only
interested in lowercase
alphabet letters ranging from one
character to 10. So, this one here, you
can use it to crack MD5 passwords that
only use alphabet letters lowercase and
they're at most 10 characters. You can
see that these are 179 GB in size. Going
further here, uh, mix alpha that's going
to be lower and uppercase combined with
digits at most nine characters. That's
going to be around 1 TB. That's a
rainbow table right there. Of course, if
you try to mix them up even more. So,
for example, if you add symbols as well
as spaces, uh, ranging up to eight
characters this time, it's still going
to be 1 TB in size. So, they grow
exponentially here. the more complexity
you add to the character sets that can
be used inside of a password, the larger
the rainbow tables are going to be. Now,
these can be downloaded for free, but
you can also buy rainbow tables. I mean,
uh, if you think about how long it would
take you to generate these rainbow
tables, uh, buying them at some point
might start making some sense. And as
you can see, they're not cheap by far.
So as you can see, rainbow tables can be
quite dangerous from a cyber security
perspective simply because instead of
you know cracking a password and waiting
days, months or even years and using a
huge computational power to do so, you
can just search a database like this and
it's only going to take you like a
couple of seconds or minutes at most and
going to find the exact password
combination that generates that specific
hash. You're basically searching for a
hash. That's it. So how do you mitigate
this? How do you fight against this? Now
I would say that the first option would
be to use very long passwords or pass
phrases like entire sentences so that
there won't be any possible rainbow
table that can be generated for a
password of 30 characters in length.
That's simply going to be
computationally impossible. But even so,
that's not going to be enough because
you still risk running into hash
collisions. So even though your original
password might have been 30 or 50
characters in length, nobody can
guarantee you that there isn't a five
character password that can generate the
exact same hash which might be available
in some rainbow table out there. So how
do you stop this? Well, the process is
called password salting. And this
salting here actually means that instead
of just taking the password and
calculating an MD5 hash of that
password, we're now taking the password
and then adding something extra at the
end like a simple suffix, just a few
bytes, a few characters at the end or at
the beginning, doesn't matter. And then
we calculate the entire MD5 hash of that
resulting string. That is the hash that
we are going to store in our user
database. And you're going to ask, well,
how does this help me? I'm still storing
a hash. I can still crack that hash,
right? Not exactly. Because what you're
providing is just the password. The salt
is stored on the server. Which means
that if you're using a rainbow table
that is going to provide you with a
valid password that can be used to
generate the hash stored on the server.
Well, that valid password is not going
to be valid because it's supposed to be
concatenated with the salt with the
extra suffix whenever it is sent to the
MD5 algorithm. So let's see what happens
with rainbow tables and hashing. Let's
assume that we have a user here and uh
their password is secret password. Now
they try to authenticate. So they're
going to send this password to some
hashing algorithm from the
authentication server. The hashing
algorithm is going to combine their
password with a salt. In our case, I'm
going to assume that the salt is 1 2 3
4. So the resulting MD5 hash, let's say,
it's going to be something like this.
And this is what's going to be stored in
the database. Now, assuming that an
attacker comes in and tries to look up
this hash in a rainbow table, it might
actually get lucky and find that they
have a match for secret password 1 2 3 4
because that's the exact string that was
used to generate that hash. Now when the
attacker tries to use the secret
password 1 2 3 4 as a login password
this of course is going to end up in the
same login mechanism the same hashing
algorithm which is going to be combined
with the salt again and of course the
result is going to be different because
the text that we're hashing is going to
be now secret password 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
and of course it's going to generate a
different type of hash authentication is
going to fail. So password salting
defeats rainbow tables simply because it
would theoretically require you to have
a rainbow table for each possible salt
combination which is not feasible
impossible to do. Now this salting
behavior is present in most operating
system by default. For example on Linux
we can have a look inside the u shadow
file which is going to store the
password hashes for the users on our
system. And uh right here is you're
going to see the actual hash of my
password which has a couple of delimters
here. The first one being the uh
algorithm that is being used and the
second one here this one is the salt. So
the salt doesn't have to be secret can
be stored on the same machine as the
password. It can even be stored in clear
text. It's not some sensitive piece of
information. It's simply there to make
the use of rainbow tables well unusable.
Okay. So I've shown you how to download
rainbow tables. Let me show you how to
generate them on your own. RTG gen
stands for rainbow table generator. It's
a small utility that's very powerful.
You can see how many hash algorithms are
currently implemented. So we have LM
hashes, NTLM, MD5, Shaw hashes, and so
on. At the bottom, we can see an example
here, RTG, MD5. Uh specify what type of
character set we're going to use. Lower
alpha for example. What's the minimum
number of characters in the potential
passwords? What the man maximum number?
That's going to be between 1 and seven
right here. Uh the rest of the values
here, these are the table index, the
chain length, the chain number. These
are all parameters that specify how big
the resulting tables are going to be.
And finally, the last one is a uh part
index just in case you know you're
generating tables so big that they
become unmanageable on the file system.
All right, so we can try to generate one
on our own here. So RTG MD5 lower
alphabet between one and three
characters. I know that's not much, but
I'm using at most three characters so
that you can see this in real time and
not wait for it. All right, so let's
start this.
Probably going to take just a couple of
seconds here. You can see the plain text
text range that's going to be between
one and three characters and the charet
data is this one right here. That's just
the alphabet lowercase,
right? We have 65,000 of 100 generated.
So we're done in about 16 seconds here.
17 seconds. Let's see what the tables
were generated.
And by default, that's going to be under
user share rainbow crack. And there it
is. That's the file that we just
generated here. MD5 lower alpha between
1 and three characters, 1.6 megabytes in
size. Not too much, but we did get it in
just a couple of seconds. Now, there's
one thing we should still do before
being able to use this table because we
need to be able to search through
rainbow tables as fast as possible. So
there is also a sort operation that we
can perform. RT sort and we're going to
perform it in the exact same location as
our rainbow table. All right, sorted.
Done. Now let's see how we can use this
rainbow table to crack a simple
password. Just a three character
password. First, let's generate a valid
MD5 hash for a three character password.
Just like that. All right, that's going
to be our MD5 hash that we need to
crack. One more step here. Let's call
our crack and provide rainbow table
location. and then the dash age argument
which is going to include this exact
same hash.
All right, what do we have here? Result.
This hash right here corresponds to the
password XYZ.
Of course, this was really fast here. We
only have a small rainbow table, but you
can see that we actually got it in under
1 second. It's just three characters,
but it's a very good starting point. If
you want, generate your rainbow tables,
make them big, make them ready to crack
more complex passwords, but be aware of
the fact that it's going to take a very,
very long time. All right, so I'm going
to show you here how to crack a password
using an utility called hashcat from a
known hash value. And I'm going to be
using a word list. They come embedded in
most security oriented operating systems
out there, even in some general Linux
distributions. One of them is this rocky
txt file in my parrot security operating
system that I'm running here in a
virtual machine. And you can see it has
a bunch of uh commonly possibly used
passwords that you can just take from
this file and use in a brute force
attempt. Now this file right here is
quite big actually. It's 134 megabytes
in size of pure text and password
combinations which is not bad. Okay, so
let's create some MD5 hashes.
Let's assume that one password here is
Superman. We're going to pipe this
through MD5 sum, right? So that's
exactly the result that we're going to
get. Now, in order to just get rid of
this uh trailing spaces and the dash at
the end, we can also pipe this to the TR
utility and make sure that we're
eliminating the last part. All right, so
we only have the MD5 hash right now.
Let's get this and redirect this into a
hashes.txt file. All right, now let's
generate some more. Right. Grab this, go
to a text editor, paste it in here.
Let's multiply this a bunch of times in
here and add some more passwords. So,
for example, Mario pizza password one
password one two three uh querty. And
let's uh let's give it a more difficult
one like pass
wart.
All right. So, these are the commands
that we'll be storing inside hashes txt.
Let's uh paste these back in our
terminal
and execute them. All right, let's have
a look inside hashes txt. There we have
them. These are our hashes that we're
supposed to crack right now. Okay, now
I'm going to use the manual of hashcat
and to find exactly what we need here.
So, let's go down here. Right. So,
that's attack mode. We're going to use
zero for straight attack. That is just
use the word list that I'm going to
provide. And also the hashtype, right?
Remember we used MD5. So I'm going to
use the hash type of zero. Let's exit
this and use hashcat as follows. Right.
So we selected the MD5 algorithm, the
attack type as direct as using a word
list. Uh let's save the output in a
passwords.txt file. Going to provide the
file with the hashes as well and the
location of the word list. Rocky. All
right. So let's see how this works.
Right. Give a couple of seconds here to
initialize. Now, normally this would
work much better, by the way, if you
were using a dedicated GPU like an AMD
or an Nvidia GPU for this because it's
basically the exact same of operations
that we're doing when uh we're crypto
mining. We're calculating hashes. Okay,
so the status here is exhausted.
Nobody's exhausted here, but we did
exhaust the entire word list, which also
means that we did not manage to recover
all the passwords. We did recover five
out of seven though. Not bad, right? At
least for I don't know an effort of 4
seconds. Not bad at all actually. So
let's have a look what this software
did. Let's have a look inside password
txt. All right. Pseudo password txt. So
apparently it was able to crack Superman
password 1 2 3 Mario password one and
pizza. It did not crackerty
which was actually a typo on my behalf.
So this is my bad here. This is supposed
to be quirky and it did not crack
passwords written like this either.
That's simply because these are not
dictionary words. Cannot be found inside
of a dictionary. But as long as it is
part of a dictionary, now you can see
just how easy and how quick we can crack
a password like this. Actually, multiple
passwords. Now, we weren't looking for
one. We we did crack five out of seven.
So, good news, right? And you know what?
Since we did not manage to crack those
two passwords using a word list, let's
try cracking them through pure brute
force. Right? Let's see how this works.
First, let's get the hash for this weird
password right here. Q www.
And that one was second to last. So,
this one right here. Let's copy this
hash and try hashcat now in brute force
pattern mode. Now, if we look inside the
manual of hashcat one more time, we're
going to find that we have some built-in
character sets. So if you're just
looking for alphabet letters, this is
going to be the pattern that we're going
to be using for each letter. Let's see
how this works. Okay, so we have the
same hashcat command here with the same
MD5 algorithm, but this time the attack
is going to be of type pattern. This is
the hash that we're trying to crack. And
then we need to specify the actual
pattern. Remember that question mark L
meant an alphabet letter. So our
password here is six characters in
length. So let's add six characters for
the pattern in here.
Well, what do you know? We just cracked
it in 1 second here with this pattern
here up to six characters. And you can
see here that the hash corresponds to
our exact password qw
typos and all. All right, let's try
doing the same thing, but this time on
our more advanced password. Right, we're
going to use this hash. All right, so
let's grab the last hash, the last one
which we did not manage to crack. Have a
look inside the manual page for hashcat
for the right pattern. So there it is.
Now you're basically going to have to
use pretty much everything in here,
right? Lowerase, uppercase, numbers, and
characters. So we're going to use this
question mark A, which combines all the
above, right? So question mark A. That's
going to be our pattern. Let's update
our hashcat command. Paste our last hash
in here. And then update the pattern. P
A S S W O R D. Let's see how this goes.
Okay. So, it does give us the ability to
quit, create a checkpoint, pause, resume
later, or check the status. Now, let's
check the status here.
All right. So, what do we have here?
That's the current speed at which we are
checking our hashes. And
time estimated here is 2 years and 245
days. All right, so thanks for watching.
See you back in 2024 with the results.
No, I'm just kidding, of course, but it
does take quite a while. So you can see
the more complex the password is, the
longer the password is, the time needed
to crack it is going to grow
exponentially. Now, you're going to get
better results on a graphics card, but
you're still going to be looking for a
complex password into the range of
months, years, if not even more. All
right, let's see one more type of
attack. And this one is called
horizontal brute force. And this one is
interesting because it approaches the
problem of password breaking from a
different perspective. And the main idea
here is that instead of choosing one
user account and trying to break the
password for that user account, why not
choose a password first like a common
password, password 1 2 3 and then choose
whether we can find a valid username
that actually uses that password. Very
useful approach when you can determine
or when you know the exact naming
conventions for the usernames inside of
an organization. For example, just by
looking at your email, uh you can
probably determine if uh if it's going
to be like first name, last name or
something like that. If you can figure
out how is the naming convention design
within that company, then you basically
just by looking at LinkedIn or looking
at the official company website, you can
determine how all the usernames are
going to look like.
then well if you have 2,000 3,000
employees and you know all their
usernames let's see if any of them uses
password 1 2 3. So it's a reverse
approach to password cracking. We first
choose a password and then find a
matching username. And what we just
described here is called password
spraying. Now the second type of
horizontal brute force is going to be
credential stuffing. This one relies on
the fact that perhaps at some point
you've determined or you've managed to
crack one password for one specific
username and you know that you have a
user password combination that is valid
on one website on one service. Well,
what if that same combination is valid
for other services as well or for other
websites? People reuse passwords all the
time. Why not try that? So, this one is
credential stuffing. It's kind of a
brute force where you choose one
username and one password and you try
multiple services just to see if that
person has reuse the same user and
password combination on a different
website. Now, this really was a pretty
huge chapter. Congratulations if you
made it this far. So, for the exam, make
sure you understand everything we talked
about password attacks, starting with
brute force and methods of performing
brute force. Understand hashing. That's
really really important to understand
what's going on, how those hashes are
calculated, what are they good for, and
especially the fact that they should not
be reversible. Also, regarding hashes,
make sure you understand the
implications of related attacks like
collision attacks, birthday attacks,
rainbow tables, how are they built, what
are they used for, and also how are they
mitigated? Specifically, know what
password saling is and how it's supposed
to be done. So, thank you for watching.
If you found this informative and
useful, make sure you like and subscribe
because that's all I need to keep this
channel going, right? That's that's all
the support that I need. Thank you so
much for watching and good luck until
next time.
[Music]