Enumeration is a process that's very
simple to understand because it's just a
way to list whatever is in your network
like all the servers, the workstations,
the network devices like routers and
switches. You need to know about all the
devices that are running in your network
in order to be able to scan them for
vulnerabilities. And it also just
happens that this enumeration phase is
the first phase that happens whenever an
attacker also tries to discover more
information about your network.
All right. So the first step in your
vulnerability management process is
going to be to list all the systems in
your network. And those systems can be
servers, workstations, printers, IP
cameras, IoT devices, maybe mobile
devices, everything that can be
connected to the network and can be a
security risk. So enumeration basically
means just scanning networks and hosts
that all belong to some target. Now if
you're an attacker, you want to do this
to gather more information or
intelligence and then use it in your
attack strategy. But if you're on the
defensive side, you can use the same
techniques to identify your attack
surface. So where are you the most
vulnerable? Where are the places where
you have to focus your attention to
reduce the number of attack vectors?
Most enumeration techniques will involve
some sort of active interaction with the
target. Even if it's something very
small like attempting some TCP
connections or a DNS name resolution.
And even if some of these techniques
don't really make a lot of noise, they
can still be discovered if your target
knows what to look for. And what I mean
by discovered is the fact that the
target might figure out that some
scanning is happening right now, which
might be proof for the first step in a
larger attack. And we also have somewhat
passive techniques which are also a type
of active scanning except that their
traffic should be indistinguishable from
normal traffic that we expect to see in
that network. That's because it's almost
impossible to figure out that one
connection attempt per hour or per day
is actually part of a larger attack. It
just doesn't look like one. Still there
are such attacks called low and slow or
sparse attacks that scan your targets so
slowly that any defense security system
or security software is simply not able
to detect them unless they tune down
their sensitivity so much that they will
get an enormous amount of false
positives and nobody wants that much
work. So these semi-passive scanning
techniques are basically going to use
the same tools as the active techniques
just that they will scan using a very
low scan profile, very slow scan
profile. And of course, we also have
fully passive techniques which enumerate
and scan networks without sending any
traffic. Of course, this kind of depends
on how lucky you are to just happen to
catch relevant traffic and relevant
information from that traffic that is
just happening to be flowing. Now, of
course, intercepting traffic is not so
easy because it requires some physical
interaction with the network. Either by
configuring a port mirroring on a on a
switch to duplicate all the traffic on
one specific port or a tap device
installed on the network link that again
creates a copy of the traffic which you
can intercept. One example of passive
scanning tools is P0F or POFF which
attempts to intercept TCP connections
and look at the TCP flags and headers to
determine the version, the operating
system, the browser, even the uptime of
some devices again without sending any
probes or any synthetic traffic. Another
such tool is Zeke, previously called
Bro, which also operates as a passive
traffic scanner and can also process
previously captured PCAP files. Now just
to get rid of this exam terminology
here, active scanning techniques can be
categorized into two. And the first one
is footprinting. This refers to
discovering the layout of the network
like the subnets, the IP addresses that
you're using, routing, DHCP options,
perhaps even routing protocols. So
that's footprinting. Then we have
fingerprinting, which refers to
discovering what is running on a
specific host. What ports are open? What
version of the operating system might be
running in there? any public file
shares, for example, anything that can
be discovered just by looking from the
outside at a specific device. And
finally, NAP, the one thing that you
should really know for the exam. This is
the the Swiss Army knife, the holy grail
of network scanning, of host scanning,
of enumeration, the number one tool of
every hacker or cyber security analyst.
Let's dig in. Okay, so assuming that I
want to scan my network, I'm going to
start small with just one single host
first. And I know that one of the hosts
in my network is this one right here,
1921 16815.99.
And I want to check first if this host
is up. So what can I do? Well, I can
ping it. Good. We are up and running.
But my entire network is a bit bigger
than that. Actually, it's uh something
like this. Now I cannot ping the entire
network with a ping command, but I can
just try all my hosts one by one. Well,
that's one is up. This one isn't up. But
obviously this is going to take a lot of
time because a /24 network means that I
have at most 254 hosts in this network.
So what can I do to automate this? Well,
I could use a script something like
this. It's just one liner here which
iterates through all the hosts from 1 to
254. And now apart from the fact that
this is kind of hard to remember, you
can see that it also takes a whole lot
of time. 15.1 15.2 to 15.3.
Now, we're not going to wait for this
one to finish. So, one of the way I can
use N map to do this kind of a ping
sweep is by using N mapap like this -
SN. So, N MAPAP- SN you can see here in
the middle. Basically means do no port
scanning. So, this is just going to be a
ping swipe. So, let's see this in action
in three, two, one.
Po password. All right. So much faster
this time. Like 5 seconds. You see it
right here at the bottom. And the
results are actually much better than
the original ping command. Not only I
can see the hosts that are up in my
network, but I can also see some of
their manufacturers. So, I do have some
Samsung TVs here, some Amazon, uh,
Alexexas, uh, Raspberry Pi, some smart
home devices in here, and so on and so
forth. How does NMAP know this? Well,
you probably know about this already,
but the MAC addresses actually are made
up of two parts. The first one is going
to be an identifier for the
manufacturer, right? There's a universal
database for this. You can look it up
online, but there are ways to identify
to which manufacturer a MAC address
actually belongs to. Now, one thing to
keep in mind right here is the fact that
you will only get to see these MAC
addresses if you are in the same subnet
or the same network as your target
devices. So, if you were scanning from
outside your local network, outside my
home network in this case, then I
wouldn't be able to see these MAC
addresses here. Hope you know this
already. And not only it's fast, but
it's also more reliable if you do the
scan from within the same subnet because
if N map MAP is connected to the same
local network as the targets, then it
will also attempt some ARP ARP address
resolution protocols and ND sweeps like
neighbor discovery protocol in order to
find out if a host is up. Usually that's
going to be more reliable than just ping
which can be filtered, you know, by
hostbased firewalls, for example.
Especially in, you know, Windows
environments or Mac OS environments.
going to filter these pings by default.
So you're not going to detect those host
as being up just by pinging them. Okay,
so N MAP does have a couple more
scanning options. Of course, it's not
just a ping sweep utility. Let me clear
the screen right here and go into the
manual page for NAPAP. And if we scroll
down just a bit here after a couple of
examples, we're going to find some
example scans right here. So first of
all, we're going to look at host
discovery. And the one that we've just
used is - SN, ping scan, which basically
means disable port scan. You might be
able to find this in older documentation
and in older versions of N map as - S,
capital P, which was some way of saying
scan using ping. But since it's not just
using ping, it also use a neighbor
discovery. They just removed this option
here. It's still going to work, but
nowadays it's just called - SN. So make
sure you recognize this option in the
exam if it comes up. All right. Now, as
far as the scan techniques go, going to
see some uh some examples here. So,
let's have a look over these scan
techniques right here. Uh two of them
that are going to be of interest for us
are going to be TCP sin and TCP connect
options, which are SS and ST. Right now,
ST is going to be a TCP connect scan or
a full open scan. So, we can do it like
this. Let's hit enter. Now, this one's
also fast, but you can see now it
provides you with a lot more details
about this specific host right here.
15.99. I can see all the open ports that
I have running in here. This is actually
a network attached storage from Synology
and it's running a couple of services.
HTTP, HTTPS, print server, file server,
a lot of things here. And what it does
in the background, it's actually
conducting a three-way handshake. So
attempts to complete the TCP connection
by asking the operating system to fully
connect just like a normal application
to all these ports that it detects right
at the end. end map is going to send an
RST packet, a reset packet to close this
connection. Now, what's an three-way
handshake? I hope you know this already,
but you know, just in case you need a
refresher, this is what happens. So,
let's assume that we have Alice and Bob,
right? A wants to communicate with B.
And the first thing Alice does because
we're talking about TCP, which is a
connectionoriented protocol, means that
we have to set up the connection first
before we send any data. So Alice
basically sends a message to Bob saying,
"Hi Bob, I want to talk to you and this
is how I'm going to talk to you." All
right. Now Bob on the other hand
receives the message from Alice and
replies saying, "Okay, I also want to
talk to you and this is how I am going
to talk to you back." Right? Because we
do need a query and response type of
communication. We need a birectional
communication in there. And finally, the
third message comes back from Alice as a
reply to Bob's request saying just okay.
I'm okay with how you want to
communicate with me. So that's basically
a three-way handshake. Now in TCP
packets, this is going to be translated
in a couple of flags that are set in
those initial TCP packets that go
between Alice and Bob. Now Alice sends
the first packet and sets the sin the
synchronization flag which is basically
a way of saying hi Bob this is me Alice
and this is how I want to communicate
with you. Now Bob on the other hand
sends back a packet which has two flags
set. It's also going to have the send
flag set because Bob is going to
initiate a type of communication with
Alice as well. So this is Bob's way of
saying hi Alice this is how I'm going to
communicate with you. But it also sets
the act the acknowledgement flag which
is a way of saying I agree with your
method of communication. So Bob
basically tells Alice I agree with the
way you want to communicate with me.
That's through that act packet. And
finally Alice needs to confirm Bob's
method of communication as well. So the
last message is going to come from Alice
and it's going to set the act flag the
acknowledgement flag saying that okay I
agree with your method of communication.
So that's the three-way handshake. After
this handshake, after these three
packets are exchanged, you know, the
normal data transfer can commence. So
that's exactly what end map- ST does,
right? Finishes the three-way handshake
on all these ports, attempts a bunch of
ports here, uh, just to discover which
of them answer and which of them are
open for communication. This is how
we're able to see all these open ports
here on our server. Now, by default, Nap
is going to scan about 1,000 well-known
or common ports. You can of course
narrow down this search if you don't
want to wait so much. Well, six seconds
might not be so too too much, but if you
have a larger network, you might incur
some delays in here. So, you can do
something like this. So, you can add an
option to specifically scan just a
couple of ports, which kind of looks
like this. With the -B parameter, I can
add a list of ports or a range of ports
to be scanned. And you can see that the
scan has finished in just 0.14 seconds
here. And we see those two ports that
are really open on the target device.
Now another important type of scanning
is the sin scan which is possible by
using s capital s right here and map- s
capital s using the same host. Let's try
it out.
You can see it's a bit faster this time.
It's 2.8 seconds instead of six. And
this happens because the sin scan is
actually considered a halfopen scan. Now
halfopen scan basically means that
instead of finalizing the three-way
handshake, we're just sending the first
send. We're getting back the sin act
response from the server. And this is
faster because instead of finalizing the
3A handshake, what actually happens is
Alice sends the sin packet, Bob replies
with a sin act and then Alice
pretends like this never happened,
right? Doesn't reply back. So leaves the
connection half open. Leaves Bob hanging
wondering what he did wrong. Where did
he miss the Alice opportunity? But Alice
doesn't reply back. So basically, we're
not completing the three-way handshake,
thus making the scan run a bit faster
and also at least theoretically a little
bit more stealthier. And actually, this
type of - SS scan is called a stealth
scan. Now remember this for the exam,
right? Remember that this TCP scan is
also called a stealth scan. It's also
called a halfopen scan. Now depending on
how the target responds to this sin
scan, NM MAP can tell you more about
that port. Also, this requires more
privileges for NM MAPAP to craft those
TCP thin packets. So, it doesn't rely on
the TCP IP stack of the operating system
anymore because the operating system
behaves nicely and finishes the
three-way handshake. We don't want to
finish it right now. So, we need admin
root privileges for end mapap to run and
be able to craft those packages in a uh
nonprotocol standard way. Now, this is
called a stealth scan, but don't be
fooled by this. Any fine-tuned IDS
nowadays will immediately detect these
scans as well. It might have been
stealthy, I don't know, maybe 25 years
ago with some very primitive firewalls,
but nowadays, don't rely on this. It's
called stealth scan. Remember this for
the exam, but don't think that in real
life it's going to be stealthy. Now,
another thing to remember here is that
by default, NAPAP is actually going to
do a stealth scan if you don't provide
any additional parameters in here. So,
if I were to just scan my server here
without any other additional parameters,
what end map is going to do is actually
going to be a stealth scan. It doesn't
tell you, but that's what it does. And
by default, it is going to scan a
thousand ports. And you can see we kind
of get the same results as before, but
uh since we're in the same network and
you know the the servers are replying
nicely, we don't see any differences
between the stealth scan and the TCP
connect scan. Now there are ways to
control the speed of the scan as well.
If we go and look inside the manual for
end mapap going to find the timing and
performance section right here and it
tells you that dash t capital t here
with a value between zero and five sets
the timing template higher is faster.
Now, by default, it's something around
uh T3, the default scanning speed. So,
if you want to accelerate your scans,
you can do something like this. So,
let's go back to our um network scan,
like this ping scan right here, and
let's make it a t0
and slow.
I'm going to see it's going to take a
lot of time. internet. This is useful
because by going low and slow, you do
have some chance of evading some
specific IDS policies and some IDS rules
that might be able to detect your scan.
If you go just slow enough, they're not
going to detect you, right? They're not
going to figure out that all those
packets sent over the length of an hour,
for example, belong to the same scanning
process. Now, you're going to it's going
to take a lot of time here absolutely.
So, I'm going to cancel this one out,
but let's try it with a T5.
And there you have it. Scanning the
entire network in less than 3 seconds.
That's going to a lot of scanning
traffic. That's going to be noisy, but
it's going to provide you with the
results much faster. Some other scanning
techniques that you need to know about,
at least for the exam, are the scanning
techniques that set specific flags in
your TCP connections. So for example,
you can do a TCP null scan which sets no
flags and just see how the firewall
reacts to those. A FIN scan which forces
the closure of a TCP session even if the
session wasn't initiated to begin with.
And the Christmas scan here actually
means that the flags of thin, push, and
urgent are all set and kind of light up
the TCP packet like a Christmas tree,
right? That's the uh that's why it's
called the Christmas scan. Now, these
are weirder scan methods, but can
confuse some older or very very basic
firewalls. Fast mode, capital F is to
scan fewer ports than default scan.
Another one good to know for the exam.
Don't forget that about the port range
scan, which we've just seen before. You
can specify one single port here or a
range or just each port in turn
separated by commas. You can also
combine it with uh ranges as well. Trace
route can be added to end map. You don't
have to use trace route by itself to
display the all the hops, the layer
three hops that are between you and the
target. And we've been talking about
TCP, but of course, we can also do a UDP
scan. Now, since UDP doesn't acknowledge
packets, you knew that already, right?
It's not connection oriented. We don't
have a three-way handshake. Now, this
type of scan kind of depends on the
application that's being scanned. And
end mapap can only wait for a couple of
seconds for a response from that
application and it can take a long time
because it has no way of receiving an
acknowledgement. It just has to wait to
see if that application sends something
on that port. So it's it takes a lot of
time to scan using UDP ports. But if you
do have to use it, you have the option
here in end mapap as well. Finally,
another type of scanning that's very
useful to know for the exam are actually
two flags here. The first one is - D,
which uses a decoy. And uh actually a
very similar one is this one right here,
- S, capital I. That's a zombie host.
Basically, also a decoy, also known as
an idle scan. And that's a way of doing
a stealth scan where another host, also
known as a zombie or a decoy, appears to
be doing a scanning so that you don't
show your true IP identity. Very
important for the exam. I can guarantee
that you'll be asked about this. And
since we're talking about firewall and
IDS evasion here, you can also find this
option useful as well. Spoof the source
address. Basically, send your package,
send your scanning packets with another
changed spoofed IP address as a source.
-f or MTU allows you to scan using
fragmented packets. Now, fragmented
attacks have been for some time a
special attack technique because they
were either ignored which allow you to
to bypass the firewall or they could be
used for a denial of service attack
since reconstructing the original packet
from multiple fragments takes up router
or firewall memory. So, not so useful
nowadays unfortunately or fortunately.
Why did I say unfortunately? because we
have some powerful devices nowadays
which aren't fooled so easily and don't
have their resources so easily eaten up
by these uh fragmented packets. All
right, so we know how to scan for open
ports. We know what services are running
on our devices. Uh let's see if we can
get some even some more information,
right? Because I know what devices I
have running in my network. I know what
ports I have open in my network. But
what exactly is running on those ports?
because just by looking at the port
number might not be exactly the
necessary giveaway that I need in order
to deduce what kind of service is
running in there. So you have different
types of scanning options with NMAP for
this as well. So if we scroll down here
in the man page, I'm going to find
another section here about OS detection.
Capital O enable OS detection. Let's try
this one in our network right now. So
pseudo end map and add my entire network
in here. Let's give it a few seconds to
run
and see what happens. Now, this is going
to take a bit more time here. And if
you're not sure if it's still running,
you can just press enter from time to
time, and it's going to tell you how
much has elapsed, how many hosts have
been completed, uh how much time we have
remaining. So, about 1 minute. Don't
worry, I'll fast forward. All right,
scan done. Let's see what we have
running in our network here. Now, the
last one here was Harmony Hub from
Logitech. So, this one actually runs a
type of Linux 2.6. Did not know that,
right? Let's see what else we have here.
a Raspberry Pi. Of course, it's running
Linux. This is my
smart vacuum cleaner, which apparently
also is running a Linux version here and
has an SSH port open. That's
interesting. Uh we also have an Amazon
uh Echo here. This is the Alexa,
which runs Google Android.
All right. I know you didn't get that.
Okay. Uh this is my uh network attached
storage from Synology here which also
runs a Linux operating system. A Samsung
TV here doesn't behave very nicely. It
says too many fingerprints match this
host to give specific always details. So
OS scanning provides you with a lot of
details about the operating systems that
are running on these hosts. Now there is
one more level we can go to and that is
try to determine what services are
actually running on these operating
systems. have a different set of options
for this which is the service and
version detection right probe open ports
to determine service and version
information -ash S capital V now there's
a way to combine these two which is by
using a capital A
you can see it right here enable OS
detection version detection script
scanning trace route so basically throw
everything but the kitchen sink to that
device and try to find out as much as
possible about it right so let's try
doing this on our server right here
because uh if we do it on the entire
network that's going to take quite a
long time. So I'm going to use the -ash
capital a parameter here. Now while this
scann is running let me tell you that
the results here are going to include
the actual protocol that's running on
the port. So we can see that's already
done here. So you can see the results
include the actual applications that are
running now on these ports. All right.
So for example for AFP we have net talk
for Sambbo we have SMB version three or
four right we don't know exactly which
version that is I have a web server here
on 443 that's running over engine X we
also have multiple ports open here
starting from ports 5000 through 501
7000 8000 and so on and they are all
running on engine X. This is how you can
determine that there's an actual web
server running in there even though it's
not running on the standard ports for
HTTP like AD or 443. So that's protocol
version scans, right? Remember - S,
capital V or - A. One thing to mention
here is the fact that you also get the
CPE listing for all these devices.
Remember this common platform
enumeration. So this is a way of
describing the platform that is actually
running in there. So what type of device
is it? Is it a smart home device, a
printer, an an Xbox, a mobile phone,
anything like this? If it can be
identified by N MAPAP, then it's going
to tell you the exact CPE code for it.
Now, another way to find out about the
scanning methods and the best practices
in NMAP is to actually use their
official documentation here on nmap.org.
They're going to provide you with a lot
more explanation here about all these
scanning techniques, what they do, when
they can be detected, how can they be
detected, and so on. So have a look over
the official end MMAP website here for
more information about additional types
of scan. Now end mapap can also be
extended by using some specific scripts
and those scripts are part of what's
called the end mapap scripting engine.
So you can basically use some scripts
here to do some more advanced types of
scanning or to combine multiple ways of
scanning including application level
scanning. So you can have some scripts
for example that look for specific web
application vulnerabilities or other
types of vulnerabilities in other
services which go a bit beyond N mapap's
usual scanning techniques. So we can
actually use N mapap for vulnerability
scanning. We can either specify the
exact script that we want to run here or
just run all the vulnerability scripts
at the same time. This is going to take
some time here. So I'm going to fast
forward this to the results and we're
going to end up with something like
this. As you can see here, the scan took
almost 10 minutes here. Did take some
time here to run all these vulnerability
scripts, but it did find a lot of
vulnerabilities on my home router. Here
you can also see the CVE identifier. So
this is one is vulnerable to a slow
loris denial of service attack. It also
gives you a nice explanation here about
this this type of attack when it was
disclosed.
That's a bit worrisome that it hasn't
been fixed just yet. Another one also
vulnerable for slow luris den service
attack in here also get the link for the
CVE under the miter website as we've
seen in our previous episodes so you can
also use end mapap as a very basic
vulnerability scanning tool it's free
it's completely open use it if you don't
have anything else in your environment
but there are definitely better tools
out there right so after the scan end
map will return some results that
describe the port states now we have
reliable states when nmap can be pretty
confident
like opened, just what it says. It's
open. It's reachable, awaiting
connections. Closed, that's when the
port responds with reset packets and
there's no application accepting
connections in there. Might be, for
example, closed because it's not open on
the device or a firewall is dropping the
connections. And filtered, that's when
the port cannot be probed, usually due
to a firewall in between. Now the other
port states are used when a firewall
isn't really friendly to the outside
world and doesn't supply enough
information for end map to confidently
determine the port state. So for example
unfiltered which means it cannot
determine if it's open or closed but
it's reachable. This is normally
generated by an axe scan an
acknowledgement scan which is used to
just map out firewall rules. But since
an axan cannot initiate a connection it
cannot determine whether the port is
open or closed. Now, open or filtered
again cannot be determined due to a
limited scan like a UDP scan for example
where the device doesn't reply with
anything. Closed or filtered is again
undetermined and this is generated by
idle scans or decoy scans. That's a
completely stealthy type of scan that
uses a decoy host and IP spoofing to
send scanning packets and relies on
probing that decoys IP packet numbering
to determine if a response is received.
Pretty smart technique, but doesn't
always work. Another important utility
here is HP ping, which is kind of the
younger brother of NAPAP. It's it's more
than an advanced ping utility. Actually,
that's a that's a true understatement.
It's a very powerful packet crafting and
packet spoofing utility, which is great
for reconnaissance. Now, in the command
line, you're going to find hping as the
hping 3 command. You can add a -age
parameter at the end to just list the
possible options here in a very brief
format. So for example, we can see how
to set specific TCP flags here at the
bottom. How to do a um an ICMP scan
which is not very intuitive here. A -1
means ICMP. A -2 means UDP. So it has
nothing to do with IP protocol numbers
for example. All right. So let's try
doing a sin scan on a port on our victim
server in our network which is going to
be H being three followed by a S capital
S for a sin scan. Port number 80 account
of one. So I'm only going to attempt one
single connection here and press enter.
Right? You can see that it also provides
you with some information here about the
uh IP packet that was generated like the
TTL, the flags, do not fragment flag
here, source port, destination port,
window size, roundtrip time, a lot of
useful information here. And you can see
that we did receive one packet in return
which means that the port is open. We
can also do an axe scan that is sending
packets that don't have the sin flag set
just the acknowledgement flag set. We
can also do this with end mapap as well.
And the behavior we expect to see with
an axe scan and remember this for the
exam as well is to receive a reset back
if the port is open. So the port is
answering. It's just that we're not
sending the right first packet in order
to create that three-way handshake.
We're not sending a sin packet. We're
sending an act packet and the port
replies to us. Uh-uh. No, that's not how
you start a conversation. So, let's try
this one with an axe scan here. You can
see we do receive an response here, but
the flags that we receive and return is
a reset flag just like we expected to.
And this tells us that the port is open.
Now, we can also try getting the system
timestamp from a device. Let's see how
long this device has been connected to
the network. We can add the-tcp
timestamp flag in here. And apparently,
my home server here has been up for 35
days. That's a pretty useful piece of
information that you can get simply by
being in the same network as your
target. Now, Hping can do so much more.
It can be used to generate fragmented
packets, to perform attacks like ping of
death or even denial of service attacks.
Now, a lot of these older attacks don't
work anymore on modern operating
systems, but thanks to IoT devices and
how oblivious many of them are about
security, you might just get lucky or
not, depending on which side you're on.
Now, finally, one last tool here is
called Responder, which is basically
some sort of a men-in-the-middle tool,
but a more specialized one because it's
a tool to help you determine if you are
vulnerable to LLMR, that's link local
multiccast name resolution attacks.
Usually happens if Windows falls back to
another type of name resolution. So, if
DNS fails, then it falls back to LMNR
and then it falls back to net bias
depending on your Windows configuration.
And of course it can intercept those
requests and inject some spoofed
responses. Now responder can intercept
those requests and inject spoofed
responses just to check if you are
vulnerable or not to this type of
attack. Check this link right here for
more information. Just remember about
this tool what it does generally for the
exam and you should be good to go.
Right. So for the exam make sure you are
familiar with the reconnaissance tool
that we've covered here like end map and
hping. Make sure you understand the
difference between active and passive
reconnaissance and also the difference
between fingerprinting and footprinting.
But before any of that, make sure you
master the scanning options for NAPAP
and HPING. The exam is most definitely
going to ask you about those. So, good
luck on the exam. Thank you for
watching. Don't forget to like and
subscribe and see you on the next video.
[Music]