[Music]
Welcome back. So last time we talked
about mitigating specific attack types.
So make sure you watch that episode as
well. Now in this episode we're going to
continue this discussion. And if you
remember from last time we also covered
a specific type of vulnerability called
a buffer overflow. Now there are simpler
types of buffer overflows and one of
them is integer overflow. Now integer
overflow is a very very simple concept
much simpler than a stack overflow but
also that much easier to perform
accidentally in your code. And the main
idea here is that everything that you
store in a computer's memory has to be
stored in a limited and pre-allocated
space in that memory. Now that space of
course since it's finite it's limited
can only hold so much data which means
that if we think about storing a number
in memory just a simple number well that
number is going to have a possible
minimum value which is probably going to
be close to zero or to some negative
value and a possible maximum value uh
which can be really high or not
depending on how much memory we've
allocated but it's definitely going to
be the maximum value that we'll be able
to store in that allocate. created
space. Now, failing to manage and to
think about beforehand what's going to
happen if somebody enters the maximum
allowed value in a specific field like
the number of items in a shopping cart
or the uh the age right in a in a
registration form. What happens if
somebody stores the absolute maximum
value that we can store in there? And
also what happens if somebody tries to
increment add just one to that maximum
value? What's going to happen then?
Well, to understand this better, let's
head over to the drawing board. So, to
keep things simple, let's think about
the smallest amount of memory that we
can allocate, and that's going to be one
bite, which means eight bits. And let's
pretend that we want to store a number
in these eight bits. So, in order to
store a number in here, every bit
position within this bite is going to
have a value of either one or zero.
Those are the possible bit values.
Nothing new so far. I hope any
combination of ones and zeros is a valid
combination. And every combination is
going to give us a different number. Now
the bit positions are numbered starting
from the right to the left. So we're
going to start with position number zero
on the right and position number seven
on the left for a total of eight bits.
Now for a quick conversion to base 10
decimal, we just need to raise two to
the power of the corresponding position.
So we're going to have a two to the^ of
0 to the^ of one power of two and so on
and so forth. So the decimal equivalent
is going to be made up of powers of two
starting with 128 on the left most
position 64 32 and so on and so on
divide by two until you reach the last
position which is 2 to the^ of 0 which
equals 1. So now I can calculate a
couple of things. For example, what is
the specific value of this binary
representation here on the screen? Well,
all I need to do is to add all these
numbers and then multiply them by their
corresponding digit in the binary
number. So 128 multiplied by 1 remains
128. Same with 64. 32 multiplied by 0 is
eliminated. 16 remains, 8 remains, four
eliminated, two eliminated, and we end
up here with a grand total of 270.
That's decimal number 270. So this right
here is the binary representation of the
decimal number 217.
Now there are a couple more things here
that we can deduce. For example, what is
the minimum value that we can represent
in this 8 bit integer? Right? So let's
make a copy of the original number and
let's change all these numbers to zero.
So what's the decimal equivalent of this
one? Well, simple enough. We're going to
eliminate all these factors here that we
don't need to add anymore.
And the end result is going to be zero
in decimal. Now, what's the maximum
value? We're going to do exactly the
same thing, but this time we're going to
set all these bits to one. So, what's
this maximum value in decimal? Well, we
just add all these decimal equivalents
here, and we're going to end up with
255. So, that's the maximum value that
we can represent using just one bite of
data. So, basically, our bite right here
can store any value between 0 and 255.
That's the minimum and that's the
maximum. Now the problem here is what
happens if starting from this already
maximum value at the bottom somebody
comes one day and accidentally or
intentionally tries to add an additional
number to it tries to do a simple
addition here take this maximum number
here and add it with one. What's the end
result of this? Well obviously we don't
have enough bits to represent this value
because theoretically at least the
resulting value would be something like
this. So we would end up here with a 9
bit number which we don't have enough
memory to store. So what happens is that
this extra bit here that gets generated
is going to be eliminated, ignored and
the actual end result is going to be a
big and round zero which probably is not
what you would expect if you did not
program this specifically but it's
what's going to happen if your number is
unsigned. that is it doesn't store any
kind of information regarding its sign
that is is it a positive or a negative
number we don't have anything about that
we can only store positive numbers the
way we did it so far on this slide now
if we're storing signed numbers then the
highest bit the one on the position
number seven which is also called the
most significant bit has a special
meaning and this bit right here is no
longer used for the number the actual
integer representation but instead
Instead, it defines what is the
mathematical sign of the stored number.
And the convention is that a number of
one equals to a negative number and a
bit of zero equals to a positive number.
Which means that our number here is not
going to be the same one as before
because we're going to ignore the first
position
which leaves us with just seven bits
here that can have possible numerical
values which also changes what the
minimum and the maximum are as well. So
the minimum number that we can represent
is going to look something like this
with a number of one on the first
position on the sign position because
the minimum number we can expect it to
be a negative one and the end result
here is not going to be minus0 as you
could probably guess but it's going to
be min - 128. So this is the value of
minus 128. The minimum value
representable on an 8 bit integer signed
address space. Then what's the max going
to be? Pretty easy this one. All right,
we're going to start with a zero on the
first position because the maximum
number we expected to be a positive one.
So we set a zero in there and then fill
everything with bits of one which
results in a maximum value of 127. So
basically this right here is the range
that we are allowed to use if we have an
8 bit signed integer. Which of course
brings us back to the question, what
happens if we add one to this value
right here to this already maximum
value? Well, this one is not difficult
at all. Adding one to this number right
here results in the second number here
at the bottom. So normally if these
numbers were unsigned, we would have
something like 127 + 1 equals 128.
Right? But with signed numbers, this
extra bit right here on the first
position becomes the sign of the result.
Which means that in this case 127 + 1 is
going to end up in being
minus 128. So just like with unsigned
integers adding one to the maximum value
jumps that entire number to its minimum
value. Now with unsigned integers we
would go back to zero. With signed
integers we would go back to the lowest
negative value. Now, which one of these
situations is worst? I don't know,
right? You're probably not going to want
either of them to happen in your code
because both of them are abnormal
situations. You don't expect when you
add products, when you you add logs or
user accounts or anything that can be
numbered, you never expect that when you
add one more to end up with less, be it
zero or a negative value. So imagine a
situation where you just add so many I
don't know iPhones in your in your
basket that uh at some point the basket
starts containing
minus 128 iPhones. Now what kind of
price are you about to pay for minus 128
iPhones? Right.
So definitely uh integer overflows might
not be so scary as buffer overflows
because they don't allow us to inject
code but they can definitely crash an
application bring it to an unpredictable
state and most likely create corruption
in uh in the database. Don't let your
code as a mitigation method don't let
your code reach a situation like this.
Always check the boundaries. Check if
the current values are those intended
ones. And also don't forget to input
validate because if you don't allow a
user from the very beginning to provide
an input that can bring you close to a
potential integer overflow, well half of
the problem is probably already fixed.
Now the other half of the problem is the
fact that you have to take into
consideration situations where due to
more complex logic the user can actually
cause an integer overflow with without
providing a large value from the very
beginning probably relying on some
internal calculations that your
application is already doing. All right.
So for the next few topics we're going
to talk about web applications. And web
applications are mainly designed to
accept some input from their users. And
this is where most of the attacks focus
as well because if an an application
allows you to enter something in a
search field, a text field, a comment,
even allows you to provide the username
and the password to log in. Well, that's
a kind of input that can be exploited by
a potential attack. So, let's see
exactly what we can expect from attacks
that target web applications. First one,
easy one. Directory traversal, also
known as the dot dot slash attack, is an
attempt from the attacker to access
other files on the same machine as the
web server where a normal user wouldn't
be authorized to look into. So it can
either target a location in the file
system where an unauthorized user should
not be able to access or it could also
target some other location in the file
system or within the operating system
actually where not even the application
itself is supposed to have access. Now
in that situation, we're also facing a
problem with the configuration of the
web server as well. So we have an
application misconfiguration.
Now if you're not properly sanitizing
any input that can look like a directory
traversal like this, an attacker could
access other locations of the web
application or even try to reach the
root of the file system on the same
machine. Basic mitigation against this
type of attack would be of course to
look for these dots and slashes within
their uh within the inputs that you
receive from the users either by using
the application or by using a dedicated
web application firewall that can look
for specific attacks like these. But
don't forget that these characters can
also be obuscated or hidden behind an
URL encoding. Additionally, a very good
way to mitigate this is to ensure from
the very beginning that the application
does not have any kind of permissions
where it shouldn't have. So outside of
the locations that are necessary for the
web application to run. So let me show
you how a directory traversal attack can
look like. And we're going to use the B
web application which is an extremely
buggy web application just like they say
right here. It's freely available as a
virtual machine or as a docker container
whichever method you prefer to use. And
on this specific page, you can see we
have a listing of a couple of PDF files
here available for download. So if I
click any of these, it's going to open
the PDF file in a new tab. All right,
let's go back to the application and
let's have a closer look to the URL in
the address bar. Let's open Notepad here
so we can make it more visible. Okay, so
this right here is the URL that we
currently have in the address bar. Now
you can see that the last argument here
is called directory and it points to a
folder apparently which is called
documents. Now let's see what happens if
we replace this documents here with our
own string kind of like this. So what
we're doing here is for every three
characters, every dot dot slash here,
we're going one level up in the file
system up to the root of the file
system. Let's see what happens if we try
to access this URL. Okay, so let's copy
it and paste it in the address bar. And
there you have it. What do we have here?
Well, we have the root of the file
system where the web application is
running. There's the uh the lib, the
user, the mount, media, run, proc, temp,
var, all the normal files and folders
that you would expect in the root of a
Linux file system. You're definitely not
supposed to access this area, but we can
because there is no proper input
sanitization implemented when parsing
URLs like these. So careful with this
type of attack. Extremely simple to
conduct. So careful with this extremely
simple type of attack that can be easily
mitigated but also easily overlooked.
Next up, we have file inclusion. And I
know that inclusion sounds really good
nowadays, especially in the modern age,
but it's not so good when it's when it's
about web applications and file
inclusion. Now, with file inclusion,
we're attempting to load to upload a
file into the running process of a
website. Of course, we're not talking
here about a uh normal file upload
functionality like you have with a with
a file sharing service or a site where
you can upload your resume, but we're
basically tricking the application into
accessing or downloading some malicious
content on our behalf. And we have two
types of file inclusion. First one, we
have remote file inclusion, which is a
way to trick the application into
downloading some malicious content,
usually through a script. And that
content is most likely hosted somewhere
online. And that's why it's called
remote file inclusion. An example here
would be an input that is expected by a
website uh which can also be a redirect
address that's also hard-coded in the
URL. Well, that address if we replace it
with some additional file online, then
we can trick the application into
downloading that file and perhaps even
executing its contents. And on the other
hand, we have local file inclusion,
which means tricking the application
into accessing a file or loading a file
that's already on the same web server.
Now, most of the time this is going to
happen with applications that are
already vulnerable to directory
traversal attacks as well because we
need the application to be able to uh
breach out of its confines and access
the rest of the file system. The example
here on the slide would be an
application that is designed to load a
specific font file from the same folder
as the rest of the code. Uh well, we can
trick this application into actually
reaching out to load the uh the shell of
the operating system that the server is
running on. And by the way, just in case
you're wondering what's the uh percent 0
0 at the end, that's the null character
in hexodimal. and we can use it to add
it to the end of the URL in order to
bypass simple rewriting mechanisms that
automatically add aphp or HTML extension
to any file that we try to access. Thus
giving us access to any kind of file and
allowing a potential attacker to load
any kind of file apart from uh even
nonPHP or non-HTML files. We can see a
demonstration of file inclusion by using
our good old damn vulnerable web
application. And this specific page
right here allows us to access three PHP
files in the same folder. So if we click
on this one, it's going to give us a a
hello message. Second one, different
message. Third one, different message.
All right. Now, if we look inside the
URL one more time, we can see that the
page argument actually points to a
specific PHP file. Now, what if we
replace this file 3PHP with something
like / etsc/pass?
And there you have it. If we don't
properly sanitize that input, we can
even access root level information or
system level information using the same
web application that everybody is using.
This right here is the contents of the
Etsy password file on the same machine
as the web application. That's
definitely something you don't want to
let your users access. Next up, we have
the somewhat number one champion of the
website vulnerabilities out there, which
is called cross-sight scripting.
Cross-ite scripting attacks target a
user's browser. And the purpose is to
trick that user's browser into executing
some arbitrary code, which is most
likely going to be something like
JavaScript code. And we can do this in
two ways. One of them is called
reflected cross-ite scripting where we
trick a user into clicking or accessing
a URL that already has the necessary
executable script embedded into it.
Secondly, we have stored cross-ey
scripting where the actual script is
this time stored in the database of the
application that the user is accessing.
Let's see them both in action. It's
going to make a lot more sense if you
see exactly how they work.
First one, we're going to go back to our
damn vulnerable web application and jump
to cross-ite scripting reflected on the
left menu. So simple page, simple
functionality. What's your name? If I
provide my name in here and I click
submit, it's going to tell me hello and
whatever name I've just entered. Now
what if I enter something like this? So
Andrew and let me start a script in
here. Something like this.
alert hacked.
Let's submit this. And there you have
it. Executed right away. Now, there's
one more thing here worth noticing. Look
at the URL at the top. You can see that
the script is now embedded right within
the URL. So right now if I were to uh
send this link over email or over
instant messaging to somebody else and
they were to just click on it they would
exhibit the exact same behavior. So the
script now executes on whoever happens
to click on a URL like this. All right
this is reflected cross-ite scripting.
Second one stored cross-ite scripting.
Let's select it here from the left.
Again, very simple page, kind of like
the comments page for any online
shopping store that you've encountered.
Let me add my name in here and then a
message. Uh, this is a good product. All
right, sign a guest book, add comment,
whatever. Now, this is normal
functionality. Now, what if I add
something like this and instead of
message,
I add something like this. Surprise. And
the same alert. Hacked again. Let's sign
the guest book hacked again. Now the
interesting advantage of store cross-ite
scripting is that my malware code, my
malicious code is now stored in the
database of the application itself. So I
don't need to craft a specific URL and
trick a user into clicking on it. I just
have to make sure that a user simply
visits this page at some point in time.
So if I just refresh this page for
example, you're going to see that I
always receive the same message every
single time I refresh this page because
the code is invisible right here within
my comment. Anybody else who comes in
and visits this page is going to receive
the exact same code. Their browser going
to be executing the exact same code. Now
there's a special category of cross-ite
scripting which are specifically aimed
at attacking admin targets or admin
accounts. So for example, we're storing
some malicious code to be executed in
the database only when a specific admin
page is rendered in a web browser. And
generally cross-ite scripting attacks
are very very dangerous because they can
do virtually anything. They can scan
your network. They can steal
credentials. They can uh compromise your
computer. They can steal confidential
data. Even provide remote access from
the attacker to your computer. How do
you mitigate this? Well, pretty obvious,
right? First of all, sanitize your
inputs. Don't allow your users to send
you executable code. Make sure you have
some defenses in place like a web
application firewall. Those are
specifically designed to catch these
types of attacks. Uh secondly, we can
also detect it through IDS's and IPS's,
more advanced ones of course, layer 7
IDs. And generally, if you want to
sanitize inputs against cross-ite
scripting, it's much better to have a
whitelist approach rather than a
blacklist approach. Because a whitelist
approach allows you to specify exactly
which characters are allowed and nothing
else rather than trying to figure out
which possible characters could end up
into uh some sort of hidden script or uh
URL encoded or B 64 encoded character
set that could end up being some
executable code. And don't forget that
Apache and IIS and other web servers as
well have dedicated modules designed to
fight against cross-ite scripting
attacks to detect them and block them.
And don't forget, as a last resort,
update the client browsers as well.
Modern browsers have some intelligence
built into them that allow them to
detect and block cross-ite scripting
attacks.
Then we have SQL injection, also called
SQL injection. This is an attempt to
directly interact with the database
behind a web application. Normally users
or even application admins don't have
direct access to the database behind a
web application. The web application
code is designed in such a way to
interact with that database in a
legitimate manner. But users normally
shouldn't have access to run queries to
execute queries or to even upload SQL
queries as regular input. Now, of
course, accessing a database can have a
number of unfortunate side effects,
starting from accessing confidential
information, secrets, and moving on to
actually corrupting the database,
changing information, or even deleting
the database entirely.
Now, before moving on, we have to pay
our dues and because there's probably no
training on this planet about SQL
injection that doesn't reference this
specific XKCD comic. So just allocate a
couple of seconds here. If you can
understand this uh you're probably good
to go for the cis plus exam as well. Now
coming back here to our dem vulnerable
web application. The main idea behind
SQL injection is the fact that uh an
application will at some point require
some input from a user. It might be a
search field. It might be a username. So
website is going to expect some sort of
a string, an input string, and that
input string is most likely going to
become part of an SQL query, some kind
of select statement. In our simple
vulnerable example right here, uh just
entering a valid user ID is going to
provide me with the relevant information
from the database uh according to this
specific ID. Now, I believe we can also
have a look at the actual source code
behind this page. And as you can see for
this web page, the code behind the page
builds a query that starts with select
first name, last name from users where
user ID is the actual field that is
being read from our web form. Which
means that whatever I enter in this
field right here is going to end up
exactly as it is as part of that SQL
statement that you just saw. Well, let's
exploit this. What if I add instead of
the user ID this string right here and
click submit? There you have it, a
listing of all the usernames in the
database. What happened in this string?
Well, to better understand what
happened, let's grab the original query
from the web page code. And you can see
it right here. And let's also paste our
customized input in here. Now remember
we said that this ID variable in here is
going to be exactly the string that we
enter in that text box which in our case
is going to be exactly this string right
here at the bottom. So let's copy it and
replace this ID placeholder with our
exact string. Have a look at our new
select statement. How does it look like
now? Well, it says select first name and
last name from users where the user ID
is null or 1 equals 1.
Well, 1= 1 is always true. All right.
So, even if user ID equals null is going
to result in a false statement or 1
equals 1 is going to make this entire
expression true. So basically my select
statement is going to select all the
first names and all the last names from
the database because the wear clause
doesn't limit me anymore to a specific
user ID. This one is always true. Now
the pound symbol here, the hashtag
symbol here at the end, this is going to
mark a comment. So basically I'm adding
this just in case after this statement
there are, you know, more uh more
statements, more parameters in the SQL
query. I don't care about them. So
whatever follows this pound symbol here
is going to be considered as a comment.
So my resulting string, my resulting
query is going to be this one,
which translates into a query that lists
the entire user database to me, a
regular user, non-admin user, somebody
who doesn't have any kind of access or
direct interaction with the database
behind this application. I don't even
know where the database is. I don't even
have a valid login to that database. I
don't even know what kind of database it
is. Now, of course, this is just a very
simple example, but you can do so much
with SQL injections. You can change
information in the database. You can
access sensitive information. You can
even delete entire tables or entire
databases if input is not properly
sanitized. And that is the number one
solution to anything related to SQL
injection. Actually, related to any kind
of injection. We're going to see in a
couple of minutes that we we have some
more methods as well. But the number one
method to mitigate against against this
is to sanitize your input. Don't allow
your users to transmit SQL statements.
Also, if you're sanitizing input, don't
ever sanitize it on the client side
because the client can easily be
bypassed and an attacker can still send
whatever they want to your web
application. So, always sanitize input
on the server side. Of course, you can
catch attempts at SQL injection using
web application firewalls or even
specialized database firewalls. Another
great way to fight against SQL injection
is to use pre-ompiled or prepared
statements. Most programming languages
have this capability. You just have to
know about it and use it. With prepared
statements, you're basically building
the query first and then you add the
parameters later. Now, building a query
first allows the programming language to
know exactly what that query is supposed
to be doing. So, adding additional
parameters later on, even if those
parameters contain illegal characters or
SQL valid characters, they are not going
to be processed as SQL commands anymore
because the original query has been
already set in place. Now, in most
cases, it's not even difficult to do so.
For example, in PHP, it's enough to just
define some variables that hold the
parameters that you're about to use in a
query and then prepare the connection
and the statement itself. You can see
now you're not simply concatenating the
first name, the last name, and the email
into the insert statement, but you're
adding it into a prepare statement with
specific unknown values. later on you
just bind those values, those parameters
to the original statement and it's going
to be executed just like you intended
to. And just in case you don't believe
me, you can see here that prepare
statements are very useful against SQL
injections.
Next on the list, we have insecure
objects references. The main idea here
is that well normally an application is
going to manage access to its internal
database uh its files its web pages and
so on based on the permissions of each
user or more specifically on the
permissions of the user that is
currently accessing that resource
because of course we have backend
objects and resources to which normal
users should not have access. For
example, the pricing information in a
database. Let's see it this one in
action as well. Okay. So, let's see a
very simple web page that allows us to
order some tickets. So, we can see here
how many movie tickets we want to order.
That's €50 per ticket. How many tickets?
Well, let's say four tickets. If I
confirm this, it's going to tell me that
I need to pay €60. Pretty okay so far.
All right. So, what's insecure about
this? Let me show you. Well, for this
we're going to be using the OASP zap or
the Z attack proxy, which is an
interception proxy very similar to Burp
Suite, which we've seen a couple of
videos ago. And we're going to use it to
intercept the request that goes out when
we try to buy some tickets. So, let's do
this right now. Inside Zap, I'm going to
set a breakpoint on all the requests and
responses. So, right now, it's going to
intercept anything that goes out or
comes into my browser. Let's head over
to the original website and this time
let's order four tickets just like
before and click confirm. Now we don't
see the end result right away because
the request has been intercepted by Zap
and apologies for the font size but Zap
is a Java application and doesn't really
behave well with scaling on larger
monitors. But in the upper area here we
can see the HTTP headers that were
generated with this request and at the
bottom the content of the HTTP request.
Let's uh have a look at them in a
separate window. All right. So this
right here was the original request. You
can see the ticket quantity for just
like we selected. But notice here ticket
price. So apparently the price of the
ticket is part of the request. This is
an example of an insecure object
reference because the object of ticket
price should not be exposed as part of
the requests that are generated by your
clients. This should be a value that is
statically defined in a database. And of
course, if I now have access to this
ticket price, I can simply change this
ticket price to whatever I want. For
example, let's make it 50 cents, 0.5.
All right. and let's grab this new
content and head over back to Zap and
then replace it with my new content.
Now, all I need to do is just release
this request and let it go to the web
server. All right, let's head over to
the website back again. And you can see
now that I've ordered four tickets, but
the end price is now just €2 because
I've just customized the price of a
ticket to 50 cents a piece and I only
have to pay€2 instead of 60. Right?
That's an example of insecure object
reference.
What's the best solution to this issue?
Well, sorry to say that, but educate
your developers. This is not something
that you're supposed to catch with a web
application firewall or within any kind
of firewall. This is something that you
should from the very beginning properly
design in your application.
Also, never assume that your users will
take a very specific sequence of steps.
Don't rely on that sequence of steps to
determine if a user is authenticated or
not, if they should have access to a to
a resource. Whenever a user tries to
access a resource, doesn't matter how
they manage to get to that resource,
make sure they are authenticated and
authorized for that. And also try to
program atomic operations or locking
mechanisms so that no resource access
can be executed without checking for
necessary permissions first. Next up, we
have XML attacks. And people generally
think about XML as something really
static. I mean, you can't really attack
a sort of a language, right? You can't
how how can you use it to attack
something else if it's if it's just some
static text? Well, the idea here is that
XML is actually used to communicate
information from one application to
another. In many cases, it's even used
to pass authentication information or
authorization information between the uh
identity provider and the authentication
server. Now, of course, there are some
uh things to worry about when using XML
because we're using it to send sensitive
information. So, sending it with no
encryption or no input validation, you
know, it can lead to interception of the
data, spoofing of data and so on. Now,
um, XML is also structured and that
structure is meant for applications to
be able to parse that XML code and
quickly find a specific content, a
specific piece of data in that payload.
Now, this parsing process is the one
that we're actually targeting for
attacks. And a well-known attack is
called the XML bomb, also called the
billion laughs attack. And that's
because we're encoding a bunch of LOLs
in a XML file. And we're relying on the
fact that XML can also encode entities
and those entities can auto expand.
Well, do that an infinite number of
times or a huge number of times and you
risk crashing or consuming the memory of
the server that is processing that XML
content. This right here is a sample of
an XML bomb. This is a billion laughs
attack. You can see that we have LOL all
over the place here. And what we should
be able to identify here is the fact
that this XML document actually has 10
entities. And each entity consists of 10
entities of the previous ones. So LOL7
is made up of 10 LOL 6. Each LOL 2 is
made up of 10 LOL ones and so on. And
the main document only has one single
entity which is a single instance of the
largest one. And this one is going to
expand to 1 billion copies of the first
entity. And if you're thinking, oh, so
XML is old and vulnerable. Who uses it
anymore? I'm just just going to use YAML
or something more modern here. Well,
with YAML, you're going to end up with
the same results, just in a different
language. So you want to see it in YAML,
here it is. Exact same code, the exact
same effect, the exact same kind of
exploit. And just to give you an idea
just about how bad this kind of
vulnerability can be, even Kubernetes
was vulnerable to this type of attack
until 2019. Now, of course, this is an
example of a denial of service kind of
attack, right? You cannot do more than
crash the server using an XML bomb like
this, but it might just be enough for an
attacker to be able to ruin your day.
How to defend against this? Well,
whatever you do, don't parse the XML
file beforehand because parsing it is
what causes the XML bomb. Try to analyze
it with a with a simple text analyzer.
At least make sure that you you're not
allowing entities, for example, or that
you are allowing only XML files that
confirm to a specific schema. And let me
give you just one more and then we're
done with this episode. That's XML
external entities or XXE.
This kind of attack embeds into the XML
file a request to a local resource. So
even though the name says external
entities, they are actually referring to
local files that are accessible on the
same machine as the one that is
processing your XML payload. And this is
made possible by the fact that just like
with the XML bomb attack that we just
saw, you can define your own XML
entities and point them to some local
resource on the same machine. And for
this example, we're going to be using
another vulnerable web application. This
time called Matil Matility. Now, don't
blame me if I just butchered that name.
And this sample web page here is just a
simple XML validator. So, for example,
if we just provide some valid XML input
like this string here at the top and
then press validate XML, it's going to
tell us that the text content parts from
XML is this one right here. Hello world.
Okay, let's try to inject some external
entities into this XML validator. So,
first let's see how XML entities work.
All right, I'm going to find a small
tutorial here on port swigger and
they're going to tell us here that XML
external entities, right, can be
declared by using the system keyword
after which you must specify the URL
from which the value of the entity
should be loaded. So, for example, we
have here two code samples. The first
one is going to point the external
entity to a remote location. That's an
HTTP website. And the second one points
it to a local file. All right. So let's
try to adapt this to our little XML
validator. All right. So our code should
look kind of like this. uh the main
message inside the XML code is going to
be stored in this I want passwords
variable actual entity which is defined
two rows up as a system entity which
points to Etsy password right so let's
copy this entire code and let's see how
it behaves in our XML validator all
right paste it in here and validate XML
and now we can see that the actual text
content parsed from the XML is no longer
just a static text, but it's actually
the contents of that specific injected
file. Let me let me paste it here one
more time so we see exactly what we're
looking for. So, I want passwords is
defined as an entity right here, an
external system entity which points to a
file located at /t/pass.
And that's exactly the content of that
specific system file. See how easy this
is?
How to mitigate this you ask? Well,
first you should validate. Secondly, you
should validate. And third, you should
sanitize your input some more. Okay, so
I guess this should be enough for today
for this episode. Make sure you check
the video description for all the links
and all the tools that we've used during
these demos. Let me know in the comments
section if you encounter any
difficulties. If you try to reproduce
these on your own at home, I'll more
than gladly help you out as much as I
can. So, thank you so much for watching
and make sure you stay tuned because
next time we're going to have a third
part with the rest of the attacks. Make
sure you don't miss that episode either.
And thank you so much for watching. Like
and subscribe and see you next time.
[Music]