It's always difficult to begin talking
about something completely new. You have
to be very careful where you begin
because things have to start making
sense as soon as possible. Otherwise, I
risk losing you, my audience, and I
don't want that. So, I actually thought
about this for a while and I thought
that there is one thing about security
that has always been a priority probably
ever since the first human being told a
secret to another human being. It's all
about information. And since we're all
cool people with technology and cyber
security, we're not going to just call
it information. We're going to call it
intelligence.
[Music]
The intelligence cycle. It's a concept,
an approach. It's pretty abstract at
first sight, kind of like those things
that you just have to learn for an exam
and then instantly forget. But its
purpose is to fill the knowledge gaps
and establish a well structured set of
information that you can use to make
smart decisions about security. For
example, to decide what firewall to buy,
where to deploy it, which systems you
need to patch, stuff like that. And the
threat intelligence cycle helps you make
these informed decisions based on your
security vulnerabilities. what threats
are out there and even some historical
information and it's not just about
gathering information but also about
analyzing it and then putting it to good
use. So this cycle is about determining
the right steps you need to take in
order to defend yourself. So let's have
a look at each of these phases.
The first phase planning and
requirements it's all about answering
the question why are we doing it? What
is our goal? So from the very beginning
it's very important to be aligned with
business requirements because if some
security effort is not relevant to our
business then it's not going to happen.
So why waste everyone's time? Also this
is where you take into consideration any
legal restrictions, obligations or
regulations that might be in place
depending on where your organization is
located and its uh field of business.
Sometimes you find yourself in the
position where this entire cycle happens
precisely because it's mandatory by law.
Then as a highle overview, we need to
decide as much as we can at this stage.
What are the most likely threats that we
are facing? Who might do us harm? And
for what reasons, what enemies do we
have? Okay, this might be a bit too
much, but you get the idea. And if we
manage to answer a few of these
questions, then we have to think about
how might they do us harm. So the
planning and requirements phase, it's
all about having a starting point. Next
comes the collection and processing
phase. So before we can brag about
having a great deal of security
intelligence, we need some raw
information, something to work with. And
this is where we start gathering that
information. It must be done in an
organized manner. It has to be very
consistent. Otherwise, you would end up
with a chaos of unorganized information
that nobody can make sense of and nobody
wants to touch. And I really hope it's
obvious that the best way to do this is
not manual. And we will get into much
more detail on automating intelligence
during this training. For now, suffice
to say that we have specialized devices
out there that deal precisely with
collection of information like seam
devices that we'll cover later. Now, of
course, this information should be real.
So, it has to come from real devices and
real endpoints from all over the place.
Your laptops and mobile devices, your
servers, your switches, routers,
firewalls, applications, even the even
the cloud. So, another important step is
the second part processing information
from a thousand devices from tens of
vendors must be normalized. has to be
processed in a consistent format. So in
order to process it all at once,
information from everywhere must look
pretty much the same. Well, that's
normalization.
When it comes to analyzing information,
usually the more data you have, the
higher the chances to get something
useful out of it. In cyber security,
this could mean some proof that there is
a problem in your network or that an
attack is currently happening. Now
unfortunately the amount of information
that you can collect from your network
can quite easily become absolutely huge
overwhelming for humans. So this is
where simple automated tools like
scripts will help you out a lot. Now
sometimes you will have to perform some
manual searches as well especially if
you try to correlate some information
from different sources and you don't
have a smart enough device to do it for
you. Again, this is where seam products
help tremendously. And this analysis is
usually mentioned in seam products as
event correlation or automation. Newer
tools have actually gone one step
further and now have some sort of
machine learning engine in the back end
that helps with filtering useful
information from a lot of noise and with
the correlation of seemingly unrelated
events. Dissemination. This is actually
the process of communicating your
findings from that previous analysis
phase. Uh the focus should be on
communicating findings internally of
course in your own organization and you
will probably want to address these
findings to multiple people at multiple
levels from the technical people that
configure security devices and respond
to incidents to the upper management
even CEO level if you find some threats
to the business as a whole. Uh this
dissemination phase comes with an
important challenge that is
communicating the same findings, the
same ideas to multiple audiences. A
report for a security analyst will or
should be very different from a report
written for the CEO. Be aware that they
all might have different objectives in
mind. They might have a completely
different set of priorities when it
comes to where should we spend our money
and they kind of speak different
languages. Though to frame this for the
exam, intelligence dissemination needs
to happen at three levels. First,
strategic intelligence, which addresses
long-term objectives and priorities,
things that we should think about but
not right now. Second is operational
intelligence focuses on day-to-day
priorities of IT and security
specialists as well as their managers.
So, shortterm objectives.
Third one is tactical intelligence. uh
real time is the shortest term objective
and if it's some intelligence that
requires us to act right now it probably
falls under the incident response
procedures you know those tasks that
have to be ready yesterday and remember
we said the first focus is to
communicate findings internally well if
you don't have any fires to put out
right now after we disseminate
internally we could think about doing
some good deeds and helping out some
other poor organization need. This is
where you have the chance to communicate
those findings to other companies like
yourself or to other consumers. Of
course, if that intelligence is relevant
to them as well. Now, nobody can really
benefit if you tell the entire world,
you know, we just found that our email
server can be so easily hacked from the
outside. Actually, that would be
something that you might want to keep
secret until you fix it, don't you
think? Well, you might have noticed that
we have a cycle here. So, the purpose is
to continuously improve this process.
So, the feedback phase is not about
providing feedback to your colleagues,
but about feeding new information back
into this threat intelligence cycle.
Things like what went right, what went
wrong, any lessons we might have learned
from the previous steps. Did we discover
anything new since last time? Are there
any new threats out there? new risks or
threats that might have appeared in the
meantime. Is there something new that we
should be doing from now on? And you
know, just before turning off the lights
and calling a day, make sure you end
this phase with a clear list of tasks
for a clear list of people that will be
responsible for making the cycle better
next time. You might start from the
actual findings and find out who wasn't
doing what they were supposed to, but
try to keep away from blaming each other
and instead try to make these
responsibilities as constructive as
possible. Like there is always room for
improvement and we can all do better
next time.
All right people, so for the exam, make
sure you know and you understand all the
phases of that threat intelligence
cycle. you will definitely receive at
least a couple of questions about which
activity goes into which phase of the
cycle. So, review this video if you
need, but make sure it makes sense for
you. Don't forget to subscribe to
Certified Breakfast and see you on the
next video.
[Music]