[Music]
Now, hosts like PCs and laptops and
workstations are a big source of IoC's
simply because they're most likely the
ones to be compromised in any attack.
So, what kind of indicators can we look
for? And we can start with the
processes. What exactly is running on
the host? Now, when looking for active
malicious processes on hosts, uh it it
helps to have a predefined baseline that
includes what processes you can expect
to run, when they should run, who should
be launching them, how many of each of
them should be should be running at any
given point in time. This way, you can
immediately figure out which processes
don't match that baseline and might
indicate a compromise. Other malware
types also attacking running processes
can load the malware code as a dynamic
library like a DLL file on Windows. Uh
thus injecting itself into a valid
process in the operating system. This
makes it a bit more difficult to detect
since the process list will not give
away any indication of a malicious
library or an external process. So
instead of looking at the processes, we
need to look at their behaviors. And
when speaking about behaviors, we could
think about let's say for a legitimate
process. Abnormal behavior might be any
of the following like unexpected changes
to the Windows registry, accessing new
locations on the disk, new files that
process would normally not access,
unexpected network activity, especially
obvious for processes that don't
normally generate any network traffic.
Now among the tools that you have at
your disposal for monitoring processes.
You probably know about Windows desk
manager of course. A process explorer is
in my opinion a much better type of
application. It comes packed in the um
CIS internals utility pack available for
Windows for free. On Linux systems you
can use the PS commands with a lot of
switches or the top command or even the
much nicer looking age top command to
monitor resource usage and active
processes. And on Mac OS, you get
activity monitor and pretty much all the
classical Unix based tools that you can
access from the command line. Now, don't
think that monitoring processes is only
required for laptops and workstations.
For example, this right here is an
interface that monitors the performance
and even the active tasks, the processes
and the services that are running on my
Synology Naz attached storage, which is
running a Linux distribution and actual
processes that can be compromised. Also
remember that processes consume
resources, hardware resources and we
should keep an eye out for high resource
usage in all our devices. Now what
exactly is high for us? Having a
resource consumption baseline or at
least a reasonable expectation about how
much CPU, how much memory, how much disk
or network IO's inputs and outputs on
your processes should consume. It's
going to help you identify any outliers.
And keep in mind that in all operating
systems, high resource usage is not
necessarily a confirmation for malware.
If you're not 100% sure if a specific
file should be present there and should
be eating up your resources, it gives
you some public sources of information
like should I block it.com, which is
going to provide you with some insight
as to what is the expected behavior of
specific legitimate and not so
legitimate files that you might find
running in your task manager. Disk and
file system IOC's. Now, why we don't
really encounter malware as a single
file on a USB drive, a CD or a floppy
disc like we used to do in the '90s,
even fileless malware, that is malware
that doesn't reside on a specific file
on the disk, uh it's going to have some
interaction with your file system or
your your computer resources and thus
might reveal its presence. By looking at
the file system and at the disk, we can
also pinpoint some data exfiltration
IOC's because in order to steal some
data, the malware will have to interact
with the file system at some point. So,
some techniques here for getting data
ready for exfiltration might include
writing to temporary folders, temporary
locations, uh masking the data as a log
file, archiving, maybe encrypting it, uh
using NTFS alternate data streams. We're
going to talk about those in a future
video. or even temporarily using the
recycle bin on Windows. So, make sure
you keep an eye out for all these
behaviors on your hosts. If you remember
the MITER attack framework, you can find
these methods documented here as well.
For example, archiving of collected
data, encrypting or compressing the data
that is collected prior to exfiltration
and data staging again, which means
collecting data in a central location or
directory prior to exfiltration. Have a
look over some of the malware examples
on these pages here and document
yourself as to what are the possible
methods that attackers can use to steal
data from your company. File system
analysis can also reveal some indicators
of compromise because the file system is
going to store much more information
than the visible files that you can
actually access like timestamps or who
owns or who has last modified a specific
file when it happened. access control
list that dictate who has access to the
file and so on. you have specific tools
at your disposal that help you get a
better view of that file system and some
even have a graphical manner but some
command line tools are already available
to you right out of the box like the dur
command the diir command in windows for
example dur/ a match all the files and
folders of a specific type in our
example here age stands for hidden dur/
capital q is going to list who owns each
file you can use this command to check
for malicious owner entity properties.
Another one here, dur/ capital R is
going to display the alternate data
streams for a file. An alternate data
stream can actually allow you to hide a
file within another file in the file
system so that it's not easily found
using regular tools and by regular
users. Now, we're going to talk about
alternate data streams in a future
video. Disk space usage can also be an
indicator of compromise. That's because
malicious software can consume too much
disk space for a number of reasons.
First of all, they can be using it for
storing files for later exfiltration.
They could be generating excessive log
information due to some brute force
attempt or scanning or whatever intense
activity it might be carrying out. It
might be downloading additional content
from the internet especially if it's
some advertising based type of malware
or spyware or simply because of bad
programming. Not not all malware is
written by excellent programmers and
monitoring this space is one of the
easier indicators to monitor. But you
will need a tool to identify exactly
where on the disk is the right operation
happening. Uh what process is is doing
it, who owns that process, when it was
launched and so on. Now there are a lot
of tools available out there for all the
operating systems uh that show you how
much space does each folder take on your
disc. And among the classics would be
for example total commander on Windows
or the disk usage command
abbreviated DU on Linux and Mac OS.
Lastly, file handles. Every operating
system keeps track of all the files that
are being accessed by its processes. For
example, on Linux, the lsof command is
going to list all the open files under
my username. And we can also filter this
down to a specific process. for example.
Now, security tools can keep track of
these open files and try to figure out
right away if there is some suspicious
behavior right there. Uh like a a
process trying to open too many files
that's or files that it shouldn't
normally access. Uh also high volume
rights, high volume deletions and
attempts to open let's say all office
documents at once on a single host might
be an indicator of an undetected crypto
malware that is running in the
background. And keep in mind that
ransomware in general and crypto malware
is a huge topic on the size of plus
exam. Next on the hosts, we're going to
be looking for unauthorized privilege
IoC's. Now, a typical phase during an
attack is privilege escalation. So,
after the attacker manages to get some
kind of access to the compromised host,
they will attempt to gain admin access
or root access to escalate their current
level of privileges. Now this is
required to establish persistency to
modify system files uh change system
settings or even pivot to other systems
within the same network. Now privilege
escalation is usually carried out using
some sort of exploit that matches some
vulnerability that the attacker has
identified on that system. This kind of
privileged account uses is normally
monitored or should be monitored and
logged. So once privilege escalation
succeeds, it becomes quite difficult for
the attacker to completely cover his or
her tracks. Now you can look for a
number of indicators here like
unauthorized sessions. Unprivileged
users accounts might show up as
accessing privileged areas. Failed login
are normally logged by default anyway
but not as IOC's. Some users do mistype
or simply forget their passwords, but
too many such failures, especially for
an admin account or a root account is
not something that you see every day and
might indicate a brute force attempt
towards privilege escalation. New user
accounts showing up on your systems
should be investigated as soon as
possible. Not to mention administrator
accounts that show up out of nowhere.
Guest account activity. If you have to
activate to enable the guest account,
make sure that they have very limited
privileges and that you monitor whatever
happens within those guest accounts
because even a guest account is a valid
account that can be used for privilege
escalation or pivoting. How about
privilege usage at abnormal weird hours
or times of day? Yeah, we know that IT
people and admins sometimes don't have
the sleep schedule of normal people, but
even so, investigate those 3:00 a.m.
login, especially if they're followed by
a lot of activity. Monitor your security
policies. If you happen to see sudden
and unexpected changes to the security
policies, access lists, this might
sometime be the only indicator that you
will ever find. If an attacker manages
to change your security policies to
accommodate their own malicious
behavior, you might not see any other
kind of alerts because they have
basically paved their way towards their
victim so that they won't be triggering
any other alerts. Having a configuration
baseline and periodically checking those
systems configurations for baseline
deviations might help you with detecting
this. Unauthorized software is
definitely something you should
investigate. Simply detecting the
presence of unauthorized software on a
host might be enough to start
investigating. Also, unexpected security
tools installed on a server or a
workstation is definitely suspicious as
well. Even if the software itself is
legitimate, like a valid engine X or
Apache web server, it's still abnormal
for a workstation to be running
something like this. This might be an
indication of a compromised host or an
insider threat. Now when analyzing such
software, you should be using some
specialized tools that not only detect
the presence of additional software but
can also create an investigation
timeline of where and when the
application was downloaded, which was
the source, how it ended up in your
network, how it managed to propagate and
when it was launched. This information
can be also presented in a graphical
user interface like Cisco AMP for
endpoints does. But the information is
already there in the operating system.
You just have to dig for it. For
Windows, we have prefetch files which
log the names of the applications that
got executed on the machine along with a
whole lot of details about those
applications including any dynamic
libraries they loaded while they were
running. Thus, finding gaps in uh
prefetch records might indicate a
suspicious behavior of some malware
trying to cover its tracks. Keep this in
mind that on Windows prefetch is
disabled by default on SSD drives. Also,
application usage information can be
extracted from one of these two caches
that you can see here on the screen. The
first one can be opened by the registry
editor. The second one cannot be open
but can be inspected using file system
forensic tools. Next up, unauthorized
changes to the system configuration of a
particular application's configuration
might also be an indicator of
compromise. An attacker might attempt to
change security settings, open firewall
ports, or disable some security
protocols in order to proceed
undetected. Now, on the hardware side,
many attacks might be carried out using
apparently harmless USB drives. They
don't necessarily need to store a virus
or some some type of file malware, but
their firmwares can be overwritten to
make them look and behave. For example,
like virtual keyboards or key loggers or
even wireless network devices or running
some exploit code that opens a back door
into any vulnerable system owned by, you
know, naive users who happen to stick
any USB drive that they find on the desk
in their computers. Persistence IOC's.
Now, persistence in malware is any
method by which malware can survive a
restart, a power failure or a or a user
logging off. Now, two of the most common
ways of ensuring persistence are writing
information into the Windows registry,
storing malicious information or code in
the registry itself. Now, fortunately,
anti-malware tools can also scan the
registry for suspicious startup items,
uh, deleted keys, or for any deviations
from a pre-approved template.
Unfortunately, the regedit tool in
Windows doesn't display the timestamp
for registry changes. But this
information can be analyzed by exporting
the contents to a text file or by using
a specialized tool such as rag dump.
Now, some things to look out for inside
of the Windows registry are order items.
A very common method for malware to
ensure persistency is to write itself an
entry inside the auto run list of
applications.
Now these items are not visible to the
average user. So this is a great place
to hide an a piece of software that
automatically launches with the
operating system. Next session is the
services list. Suspicious entries in
this key here might indicate that the
malware is running hidden as a
background service. Very often using one
of the names that Windows uses for its
own services.
File associations. Another popular tool
for tricking users into launching
malware is by changing the application
associated with specific extensions. Now
user expect to open let's say txt files
or docx documents with notepad or word
and instead they launch some malware
binary file extension registry entries
are right here on the screen. Last but
not least scheduled task. The second
common method for persistence is for an
attacker to set a scheduled task to run
automatically so that their malware is
going to run uh whatever they want it to
run. Uh fortunately scheduled tasks are
easily displayed using this task
scheduleuler and Windows also keeps
track of all the previous run attempts.
So you also get a run history just to
figure out when each entry in the task
scheduling list has successfully run in
the past. and also it stores the
information of whether the task
succeeded or not. Finally, application
IOC's. I know I'm repeating myself here,
but studying application behavior with
the purpose of finding indicators of
compromise is made much much easier by
having a documented nice baseline. Now,
in case of applications, this means
understanding how is the application
behaving in a legitimate manner. How
does it interact with the processes,
file system or network? How is it
supposed to work as opposed to how it is
working when something suspicious
happens? One more thing when we say
application we should include
virtualized applications as well.
Applications running on clouds or even
applications running on mobile devices.
So don't forget about those. Now let's
look at network connections from an
application perspective. What should we
look for in an application to determine
if it's suspicious behavior or not?
Well, starting with the network, you can
list all the open ports on a host with a
tool like netstat locally or any map to
perform a remote scan from a remote
location and look for unusual ports.
Those might be applications listening on
strange port numbers or simply
applications with open ports that
shouldn't have any open ports. How
suspicious would it be to find
Notepadexe
listening on a network port? Also, don't
just look for listening ports, but also
look for outbound connections as they
might be an indicator of malware
communicating with its command and
control center. Next, we have to look at
unexpected outputs and errors. Attempts
to exploit an application or even to
scan it for vulnerabilities might
produce errors or even more errors than
usually, which should be visible in an
application's log file. This is
especially useful for web applications
where we might be seeing code injection
happening, directory traversal attacks
happening, and many other attacks that
are actually easy to spot in the
requests stored in a generic log file.
Service defacement. This is usually more
obvious and easy to detect since
defacement, especially for websites, is
an action that replaces some web
content, usually the landing page, the
index.html HTML page of the first page
that the user sees when connects to the
website with the attacker's own content
with the purpose of you know being
visible. Activists often do this to
promote their own message on the
homepage of some company that they do
not agree with. Uh finally service
interruption here application and
service crashes are a common event. So
not every error or crash that you
encounter will be related to a security
incident, but they can lead you to
suspect that a security breach has
occurred.
Now some common patterns here would be
uh manually disabled services by an
attacker, especially security services
in order to cover tracks and evade
detection. Uh compromised processes with
malware code in them that can lead to
frequent, you know, errors and crashes
because not every exploit is a flawless
exploit. and even disabling a service
due to a denial of service attack. Now
running services can be viewed in
Windows in task managers as you know and
you can also use some command line
utilities
like net start for example
on cmd or if you like powershell better
you have the get service command which
kind of gives you the same output. On
Linux, services are called demons. And
you can list them along with the rest of
the processes using the ps command or
the top command or using the service
command or the system ctl commands.
And then on the host, we also have the
applications and their logs. And that's
a gold mine of information about
potential indicators of compromise. Now
since most applications have some sort
of logging mechanisms in place, properly
analyzing these logs can reveal a lot of
useful secured information. For example,
for DNS, we can look for what queries
were received, including malformed ones.
Uh list of destinations accessed by
internal host. What kind of websites are
our are you users accessing? We can find
those with some bad reputation in there.
You can look for statistical anomalies
like very large number of resolution
failures which might indicate a denial
of servers or a malware that is
constantly trying to reach its command
and control center. Now for web servers
we can look at the HTTP status codes. We
have uh codes starting with four uh
which indicate client errors, codes
starting with five that indicate server
errors. Uh some web server software can
also log the request and response
headers where you can find information
about which data was being sent to the
server. Uh information about cookies and
sometimes even the user agent header
field that identifies which application
as a client as an HTTP client was
initiating that connection. This might
provide some useful insight. Logging the
requests makes looking for past
intrusion attempts especially for web
applications very easy. Now when it
comes to FTV servers, you can just
simply log the entire activity of all
the clients, all the connections, all
the commands. They're all textbased
commands. Uh you can easily spot brute
force attempts or attempts to access
restricted areas because they're also
going to be logged. For remote terminal
connections like SSH, the SSH protocol
is concerned only with the protection of
the data channel itself. So you will not
find information about what commands
were actually used or which files were
transferred but instead you will see
some session information and of course
you will see the failed authentication
attempts. For example, a large number of
failed loginins using uh multiple
encryption methods might indicate a
reconnaissance attack of an attacker
trying to figure out what type of
encryption is enabled on your SSH
servers.
for database, SQL, SQL logs beyond the
usual logging generated by most SQL
servers out there as part of the
maintenance tasks. Logging access
attempts is very useful from a security
perspective. Going one step deeper, SQL
servers can also log all the queries
that they received and their execution
status, allowing you to drill down into
the actions of every person or
application that accessed some piece of
information from your databases.
New accounts are also important to
monitor because one way to maintain
access for an attacker is to create his
or her known account on a compromised
host on systems with hundreds of
accounts. Userbased or machine-based one
rogue account can easily be overlooked
and ignored. This is why account
creation as well as privilege assignment
must be very well defined and part of a
wellbuilt change controlled process
within the organization. Now on Windows
remember that we have local user
accounts that can be administered from
the local users and groups console. Uh
while domain accounts would be found
under the active directory users and
computers. On Linux on the other hand we
have some tools that help us with
account management. At a minimum you can
start with the W command for who which
shows you the currently logged in users.
Now, if you don't happen to catch any
suspicious accounts while they are
logged in, have a look at the login
history using the last log command and
see which of these users have recently
logged in into your systems.
The list of last login is useful because
some attacks might remove their traces
including the accounts that they have
created. So, this might be the only
place that shows what happened in the
past.
You also have files like var log o log
which show past user creation commands
and also fail log can track
authentication failures. Don't forget
about virtualized applications because
many applications today are designed to
run in virtual environments. Of course
this brings a lot of benefits from an
admin perspective but security
challenges also change quite a bit. Now
discovering indicators of compromising
virtual machines can be done in a number
of ways. Starting with the process and
the memory. For process and memory, we
can use hypervisor VM introspection
tools. That's just a fancy way of saying
that the hypervisor being the master of
all the virtual machines and the
underlying hardware can access the
memory of each virtual machine. Also,
suspending a virtual machine will write
its entire memory contents to the disk.
A process similar to hibernation in
desktops and laptops. This state file
can be analyzed just like a memory dump.
Then we can also look at the disk and
generally any kind of persistent storage
with virtual machines because analyzing
the files within a virtual machine is
just a bit easier since the VM's discs
or disk are already in an image format
easily accessible. So looking for IOC's
in there is easier since everything is
already in one single place. You don't
have to deal with harder components.
Also you can have access to the recovery
of deleted files. That's also possible
because those virtual disk image files
store the free space as well. And don't
forget about system logs. Applications
in virtual machines sometimes undergo
some recreation processes. That is
sometimes even for an update or a fix.
The entire application might be
destroyed and recreated as a new virtual
machine from a new disk image and then
have its configuration reapplied. Now,
this is very convenient from a
management perspective. But if you don't
have a centralized remote logging in
place, any locally generated logs will
be lost. So, make sure you don't lose
those if you're facing an infrastructure
rebuild or a simple denial of service.
Now, we do have to end at some point.
So, let's end with mobile applications,
IOC's. Now looking for IoC's in mobile
devices and applications is sometimes
very difficult due to the fact that
mobile devices are sort of black boxes
nowadays. Uh for most devices storage is
soldered on board of the device. It
cannot be extracted and sometimes it
cannot even be accessed using thirdart
tools. So you're going to run into
difficulties created by the security
controls of the device itself like
device encryption. Screen locks also can
prove to be extremely difficult to
bypass as well. Uh starting with iOS 5 I
think and Android 7 devices are
encrypted by default. So for unencrypted
devices, a JTAG interface attachment
might be possible to directly read the
contents of that storage device. Now,
keep in mind that besides the
information that you might be able to
extract from a mobile device, there are
two more sources of information and
potentially of IOC's. First one, we have
the cloud. Now, this is where the
backups live. Sometimes even the
configuration of the device itself, the
user accounts, their passwords, uh the
login data of all the application, their
session data, everything including the
access logs are going to be stored in
the cloud. Now depending on which cloud
that is, you might be able to get some
really juicy information from there.
Secondly, don't forget about the carrier
itself. The carrier is going to handle
everything related to your calls, your
voicemail, your SMS uh service, the uh
network traffic activity, which
antennas, your um your your phone was
next to at any given point in time,
geoloccation information and such. If
you do have access to this kind of
information, which is not just a
technical but also a legal matter, make
sure you get as much as you can because
that's going to be a trove of
information about that specific device.
Okay, now this was a huge chapter and
honestly it's a huge chapter in the exam
as well. That's why we spending so much
time talking about these IOC's. So for
the exam, make sure you remember. I
cannot remember by heart. But I have to
check my list here. So, let's see. We
talked about denial of service, right?
We talked about beaconing IoC's, uh,
peer-to-peer communication, rogue
devices, scans and sweep events,
non-standard port usage, data
exfiltration, covert channels, malicious
processes, so everything related to the
host like high resource usage, file
systems and disks, uh, user privileges,
unauthorized software, unauthorized
device changes, persistent IoC's,
application IOC's, application logs,
IOC's, new accounts, virtualized apps
and finally mobile apps. Make sure you
understand and you can easily provide
some examples of how these IoC's are
supposed to look like and at least an
idea about how they can be obtained or
extracted. So, if you found this useful
and informative, don't forget to like
and subscribe. That's all I need to keep
this channel going. Thank you so much
for your time. Best of luck at the exam
and see you next time.
[Music]