All
[Music]
right. So, today we're going to talk
about software testing. Now, why do we
need to test our software? Let's think
about it for a second. Why do we test
software? Well, we test it because we
want to be able to fix those bugs and
perhaps some badly implemented
functionality in our code, which can
lead to annoyed users and unhappy
customers. Now, since we're talking
about cyber security here, let's think
about it from a cyber security
perspective. We're going to test
software because we attempt to catch
those bugs that can potentially become
future vulnerabilities which can lead to
exploits which can lead to attacks which
can lead to data breaches which can lead
to again annoyed users and unhappy
customers. So basically we're going to
talk about let's see how we can keep our
customers happy through software
testing. And kind of the bad news here
is that this process is incredibly
difficult. There's probably no piece of
software in this entire world that
hasn't had at some point in time some
issue, some bug, some badly implemented
functionality which required a a patch,
a fix, an update. And that's just how
things are. I mean software assessment
and code review are never going to be
able to catch absolutely all problems or
possible issues with that piece of code.
So we're actually in a process where
we're not attempting to eliminate all
potential problems, but we're trying to
minimize and bring down the number of
potential problems as low as possible.
And one more thing to keep in mind, we
can only fix those things that we know
about. We can only think about so many
issues, so many potential
vulnerabilities, but there's always
going to be someone who comes after us
and discovers a new flaw in our code.
And unfortunately, there's not much you
can do about this except continuously
try to improve these processes, these
software assessment processes.
Now, this chapter, this discussion is
going to be more about terminology. It's
not going to make a softer tester out of
you, but at the end of it, you'll be
able to understand it, explain it, you
know, you'll be able to talk about it
and of course, you'll be able to pass
the questions on the exam, of course.
All right, so enough talk. Let's bring
some order to this process and let's see
what are the main methods that we can
use to improve and actually test our
code. And well, the first one we'll
address here is going to be static
analysis. And whenever you see static
analysis, just think about, you know,
looking at the code. So we're just going
to look at the code and analyze the code
for potential weaknesses that can lead
to vulnerabilities. And remember, this
is going to be performed before the code
is ever run or even compiled. And when I
say just look at the code and analyze
the code, you're probably imagining a
situation where you're just reviewing
someone else's code. And uh you see a
function right there that I don't know
that that that function doesn't look
safe to me. And yeah, that's one way of
doing it. That's a manual code review.
But of course, we're going to try to
automate this as much as possible
because some automated tools might have
some better insight and better
intelligence and better attention to
details, let's say, than our human
peers. Now, just to give you a starting
point here, uh NIST has a list. NIST has
a list of popular source code security
analyzers. So, these are going to be
automated tools that focus on security
first of all. Now, of course, um this
list is very comprehensive and you can
see that most of these tools right here
are focused on specific programming
languages because uh if we're we were to
check for specific conditions, well, we
do need the tool to properly understand
the code that we're writing. So, they
have to be designed specifically for the
for our programming language. Uh some of
them are free, some of them are uh well,
let's say less than free. And don't be
put off by the fact that some of them
haven't been updated in a couple of
years. Uh they're still more than okay
since the core principles in most
programming languages don't really
change that often. Now you might be able
to recognize some of these. Um for
example, uh let me see here.
Pilint. If you ever programmed with uh
Python, Pilint is a free tool here for
checking for errors and looks for bad
code smells.
This is actually an official term. If
you're not a programmer, this might be
new to you. But code smell is a
characteristic of a code of source code
that can uh potentially be a red flag or
something that doesn't really look well
and can lead to potential problems. When
I see smelly code, I keep thinking about
smelly cat from Phoebe in France. But
let's not digress too much. And of
course, you can do all this code
checking business manually as well. And
if it's done manually by human eyes,
it's usually called peer review or
manual peer reviewed simply because you
do need a peer. You do need another
human being next to you to review your
code. Now, that peer could be a
programmer, but can also be a security
analyst just like you who understands
programming. Of course, unfortunately,
most developers nowadays kind of skip
this part and only focus on
functionality. So, security is kind of
an afterthought or is considered to be
somebody else's problem. And just as a
piece of advice here, since we're
talking about human interaction, when
you're doing code review, try to, you
know, focus on the communication. Try
not to offend. Don't just criticize
because you're finding flaws in somebody
else's work. And this is something
that's most of the time really tough not
to take personally. And of course, if
you're a team lead or working with some
programmers, the recommended way to
approach this this step right here is to
train your developers from the beginning
on at least basic security concepts or
at least give them access to some simple
tools that they can use during their
initial unit tests.
Now, what comes after static? Dynamic,
of course. But we're going to have a bit
of a longer discussion about dynamic
analysis, and I'm going to leave that to
the end of the video. In the meantime,
let's focus on the formal method. Now,
the formal method is going to be
completely automated, and uh it's
actually a type of software verification
that relies on mathematical inputs track
code execution. So it basically allows
you to check which code paths in your
application are being used, which code
paths are perhaps unreachable, which
code paths could uh potentially create
an infinite loop and undesirable
infinite loop. And it's mostly going to
apply to more complex projects where the
number of branches and potential, you
know, code execution paths is just too
high for a programmer to be able to
follow all potential uh, you know, code
execution scenarios. Now, while static
testing required that the automated tool
to understand the programming language
that you used to write your code, well,
the formal method requires the software
tool to actually understand the
application that you're you're
developing and how is that application
supposed to be used. So you're basically
going to have to have a very
well-defined formal model of the
application for that tool to be able to
understand what are what or should be
the possible you know code paths what
branches are supposed to be taken which
end states is the application supposed
to end up in and stuff like that. Now
having a complete formal model of an
application is not going to be an easy
task. It's something that it's not
always possible. It's not easy to
accomplish. So not every company and not
every software development team is going
to be able to implement this. Now AWS
does this and since we're talking about
Amazon, no surprise here, they can
afford to do this and this is one of
their papers focused specifically on the
security of all their uh cloud services.
So for example, we can see here that the
AWS security team performs this form of
security reviews of all their features
and services which were about 1,400
uh back in 2017. So yeah, that's going
to be a whole lot of effort to develop
such a model, but it's going to provide
you with great benefits because it's
completely automated and it also has the
best chance of figuring out all the
possible execution scenarios of your
code or or the possible scenarios in
which your application could be used,
which is awesome from a security
perspective. You're basically not going
to be taken by surprise by any of your
application's behavior. Another one that
you've probably heard before is UAT,
also known as user acceptance testing.
And as the name says, it's going to be
focused on the users. And we're
basically going to be using the users as
software testers. Now most of the time
this is going to apply in a scenario
where you're developing an application
for a company for a customer and
specific individuals from the customer
side volunteer or have been volunteered
to test your application which is still
in a uh pre-release state. It's in a
so-called beta version. Now of course
this kind of testing is not going to be
performed the same way your developers
are going to test your code. Now the
users are going to be testing the um the
interface of your application and
they're going to be following some
predefined guidelines. So basically
going to have some documents here that
state the fact that the application is
not in its final state and this is
precisely what we need to test right
now. Now they might follow those
guidelines or they might not. So UAT is
sometime both a source of interesting
feedback and testing results but also a
source of frustration from the customer
because they realize that things that
they expect to work don't work yet or
they don't work at all as expected. But
this is more about politics than cyber
security. So we don't really worry about
this. Another type of testing usually
performed by your own team, your
development team is called regression
testing. Now this type of testing is
going to be performed just like any
other you know feature functionality
testing that you would normally do. But
this is going to happen every time a new
feature is implemented or a feature is
updated.
Well, the problem is that when new
features are introduced or old bugs are
fixed in your code, well of course
you're going to be deploying some
software patches or updates. Now the
issue here is that any code change might
break something that was previously
working like having you know unintended
side effects or even it could introduce
new vulnerabilities in your codebase. So
regression testing is going to be a type
of testing designed to make sure that
any new changes don't introduce security
risks in previous code. In other words,
well we have this new feature. It works
quite well. We've tested it, but let's
just test everything else we've done
before it just to make sure that we
haven't broken anything that was already
tested. Now, of course, you should do
regression testing anyway, not just for
security reasons, but just to make sure
that a patch that you've deployed
doesn't break some fundamental previous
feature that was working quite well in
your application like those nasty
Windows updates that you happen to read
about or even experience them on your
own machines that sometimes when a new
update is released, a few users around
the world are going to end up not being
able to start their computers anymore.
That's one example of regression testing
gone bad or not at all. But we're
probably don't expect Microsoft to
completely ignore regression testing. We
just expect them to do it badly, right?
And another way to perform software
testing is through reverse engineering.
Now, this is a very generic term. You've
probably heard it more than once before
in different contexts. And well, the
purpose of reverse engineering is to
attempt to deconstruct
compiled code into its original source
code or at least to deconstruct it down
to a certain state where you're able to
figure out what that code is supposed to
do. What are the all all the possible
branches, all the possible decisions or
the possible end states in that code.
And generally you use it just to figure
out what that code is supposed to do,
what it was designed to do. Now, as you
can probably guess, reverse engineering
is not only useful for software testing
or generic software testing, but very
useful for analyzing malware, especially
those zero days attacks where you don't
know anything about that piece of code.
You don't know what it does, how does it
interact with your files, with the
operating system, with the network
connections. But if you're able to drill
down into the code of the malware
itself, you can see all the potential
branches, all the potential outcomes of
executing that piece of code and you can
easily then determine if the outcome or
any outcome of that piece of code is
malicious or not. And as we've said,
reverse engineering is actually a very
very generic term. And we actually have
about at least three levels of code. Now
the first one is called machine code.
This is going to be the actual contents
of the executable file. That's what you
have on your disk when you want to run
that application. That's going to be
machine code that's taken by the
operating system given to the CPU.
That's the compiled program with enough
instructions to be executed step by step
from the beginning to the end. Not so
easy to understand by automated tools by
not to mention human eyes almost at all.
But the compiled version of a program is
usually the toughest one to deconstruct
and analyze. So we also have something
in between which is assembly code. Again
this is going to be native processor
instructions but are going to be
presented in a in a more human readable
language. Now assembly language kind of
looks like this. It's definitely not the
most userfriendly or programmerfriendly
programming language out there but the
main advantage is that you get the
chance to program. Now assembly code
kind of looks like this. It's definitely
among the least user or programmer
friendly programming languages out
there, but it gives you the opportunity
to directly program instructions as
close to the CPU as possible. So, you're
basically just telling the CPU what to
do. Now most operations, most
instructions in assembly code refer to
moving data or performing basic math
operations, you know, like push, move or
logical operations like ands or x or not
and so on. Now these instructions use
either the CPU registers or the
computer's memory. A disassembler is a
piece of software that is used to
generate assembly code from a compiled
program. Again, not so easy to read and
understand, specifically since this
piece of code right here was written by
me around my second year of college. And
since I did not add enough comments in
this piece of code, I absolutely have no
idea what this code does. So, don't
follow my example. Comment your code,
please. Finally, we have highle code,
which is mostly going to be written in,
you know, programming languages that
you've heard about like C, C++, Java,
Python, C and so on. Those are
considered to be high-level programming
languages. A decompiler is the piece of
software that is going to try to
deconstruct a compiled program into this
highle source code. This is definitely
not always possible and there are
specific programming languages out there
that are better suited for this type of
reverse engineering than others. Now,
probably the most popular tool for um
reverse engineering is the interactive
disassembler or IDA, also known as IDA
Pro from Hexrays. Now, what you're
seeing here on the screen is the
deconstruction of the Notepad executable
in Windows 10. And to be more precise,
this is actually the replace all
functionality, the replace all function.
And these are all the possible code
branches and all the possible decisions
that can be taken by Notepad whenever
you are about to replace some text. And
if you think that's complicated, have a
look at the save file functionality. The
simple functionality that basically
takes your input and writes it into a
text file on the disk. And just have a
look at how complex all of this is.
which should give you a better picture
now of why is it really important to
have the proper tools for this type of
code analysis or code testing. Now this
is a very simple functionality from
notepad. Imagine what a complex piece of
malware can do. Now, one more important
idea here is the sandbox because in
cyber security and especially when
reverse engineering malware, this is
most likely going to happen in an
isolated environment which can be a
virtual machine, a container, some
isolated environment where you can and
the official term is detonate the piece
of malware, the executable code and just
analyze, see what it does, what kind of
network connection is it initiates, uh
what kind of files it tries to write on
disk. Um, if it tries to encrypt some
files in case it's a crypto locker, uh,
if it creates some auto run entries,
some registry entries, stuff like that.
All of this happens in a sandbox because
a sandbox is a completely isolated
environment. We can let the malware do
its thing, whatever it intends to do in
there. And then we can uh easily observe
that behavior and understand what that
piece of malware actually does. and
ideally also how to mitigate it. And
another reason why you might want to
consider sandboxing apart from the fact
that ID pro for example is quite
difficult to use in some situations you
might encounter some measures in place
that can make reverse engineering close
to impossible. Two of these situations
are code obuscation which is uh a way to
make the code extremely difficult to
read and to follow. you randomize
function names, variables, anything that
you can mess up in that code as long as
you keep it functional so that anybody
who manages to get their hands on that
code is not going to be able to
determine at least not immediately what
that code does. Second situation is when
you encounter code encryption. Now you
can deliver encrypted applications but
if you want to allow your users to use
those applications, you also have to
deliver the encryption key as well.
And even though it kind of sounds okay
like you know you're delivering
something uh secured and you're also
giving the the key to decrypt and use
that application. The reality has proven
that there is absolutely no situation in
real life where you are able to deliver
the encrypted code as well as the
decryption key and also to keep that key
completely hidden from anybody else who
might want to you know reverse engineer
that process. And this is basically how
uh DRM digital rights management is
defeated nowadays. Even if you deliver
Netflix encrypted content, you do have
to provide the key somehow and you're
not going to be able to hide it so well
that nobody else is going to find it and
actually decrypt that content. And this
is why most situations DRM nowadays can
be defeated. Now, I promised you we're
going to be talking about dynamic
analysis and this is it. Now, dynamic
analysis is all about looking at how the
application is running. So we're talking
about compiled code, functional code.
We're looking at the application and at
the system as well to see how the
application is behaving. Now one way of
doing this uh even from the very start
from the development phase is by using a
debugger. Now the debugger is a program
that attaches to your main application
and watches or allows you to watch how
the execution unfolds. For example, it's
going to allow you to step manually or
automatically through the program code
line by line and see how the application
behaves while watching for specific uh
variables or specific function calls or
just checking how the memory is used.
Now, another type of testing here is
going to be stress testing or also known
as load testing. Now, this is mostly
going to be performed pretty close to
the end of the software development
process because we need a functional
application to be able to stress test it
to be able to throw a bunch of input to
that application and also to make sure
that it's not going to crash and it's
still going to process it properly. So,
stress testing works by just throwing
some input at that application and see
how it behaves. If the performance
decreases, when does it decrease? if
there's a point uh when the application
actually crashes or there's a specific
uh point where the application starts to
lose functionality perhaps by not being
able to process all that input in a
timely manner. Now this is very relevant
not only from a performance perspective
because you're going to have to you know
fill in some data sheets perhaps and uh
tell your customers that these are the
minimum or the recommended requirements
for your application. This is also
something that you get from uh stress
testing or load testing but also from a
security perspective because in some
situations this is the exact same
behavior that's going to happen when
your application is under a denial of
service attack. How is it going to
react? Is it going to fail in a safe
manner in a secure manner or is just
simply going to allow all traffic in
case it's it's some sort of a traffic
filtering solution? All of this is very
relevant for cyber security as well. And
nowadays we also have an additional uh
parameter so to say that we need to
think about most of the applications
nowadays can or already run in the
cloud. Now clouds are elastic by nature
which means that the moment you need
more resources you can just ask them
from the cloud and you will receive
them. Now this might sound nice but this
might also cause you some concern if
your application is under a an attack or
a denial of service attack. don't want
to just scale your application and start
paying for a bunch of resources, extra
resources simply because your
application is under attack. But stress
testing like this performed in a cloud
application can also help you determine
where exactly does that autoscaling
process kick in. So when can you expect
to pay more for the necessary
infrastructure that runs your
application? Not just in case of an
attack but also in case you know you
just get a bunch of users new users one
day. And another very interesting
software testing methodology is fuzzing.
Also part of the dynamic analysis. It's
just another way to test an application
against bugs and vulnerabilities but
this time by throwing various inputs at
it. So we're not talking about quantity
but we're talking about diversity. how
diverse your input can be because this
is a great way to properly sanitize
inputs that were not specifically
designed for your application. A lot of
the attacks, a lot of the exploits
nowadays happen because the input is not
properly sanitized and is most likely
obuscated or masked in some manner that
wasn't taken into account when the
application was developed. One example
here would be a web form that expects me
to enter my name. Well, the developer
expects me to enter a name of up to a
number of characters. What happens if I
enter a million character name? What
happens if I enter a number? What
happens if I enter HTML code or XML code
or JavaScript code? What happens if I
enter SQL code in there? What happens if
I craft a request that instead of the
name I actually embed an entire
executable file in there? What happens
to the application then? This is where
fuzzing helps us a great deal. So as you
can see this type of testing is very
useful because it can help us test for
very specific corn cases. Also test for
unexpected input that can lead to or at
least facilitate future attacks like
code injection, buffer overflows, SQL
injection and so on. And as you can see,
we do have a number of fuzzing
techniques here that you should know
about. First one being application or UI
or user interface uh fuzzing. This is
about testing everything that the
application interface accepts as an
input on any input field. Text fields,
text boxes, web forms, anything else
that can be directly interacted with by
the end user. Second one is protocol
testing. This is going to be about how
does the application behave when the
protocol, the communication protocol
that the application uses starts sending
abnormal traffic. Think about testing
with unexpected values in TCP headers or
HTTP headers, unexpected flags that
shouldn't be used in specific scenarios,
things like that. Again, this is useful
because many attacks can be detected at
the protocol level. Many IDS's or IPS's
are actually looking for protocol
anomalies in order to determine known
and unknown attack patterns. Even if I I
see an abnormality in that protocol and
I don't know exactly what kind of attack
it is, I know that that protocol
shouldn't behave like that. It might be
someone attempting to exploit a
vulnerability. So, I'm going to deny
that traffic. But first, we have to
detect it. And if we don't detect it and
if we don't stop it then we have to make
sure that the application still behaves
properly in case somebody starts sending
some abnormal protocol traffic to our
application. And the third one is about
files used as input. Now many
applications allow their users to upload
their files even if it's just a profile
picture or a resume or some uh MP3 file
or anything that can be uploaded from
the user's hard drive to the
application. Now, how does the
application behave in case it doesn't
receive the expected file format? Or how
does the application behave? In case it
receives an expected file format, but we
managed to trick it into believing that
we're uploading a JPEG file when in
reality that's going to be an executable
file designed to exploit a
vulnerability. or even better, how is an
application that is supposed to process
your resume online behaves when you
upload a document, a word document with
macros in it. Now, of course, to be able
to design these types of various inputs
and to properly test how the application
behaves requires two things. First, a
very careful design of your input test
cases. Now you can rely on randomly
generated input but this could firstly
take a very long time and secondly you
might not even cover all the cases. A
better option would be to carefully
craft specific test cases specific
packets or or file types depending on
your application its protocols and it
expected attacks. Secondly, you also
need to devise some sort of testing
mechanisms that kick in after the
fuzzing has completed and try to
determine whether the application has
properly processed those inputs or has
crashed or has reached a completely
unsecured state just to validate if you
know those test cases were actually
successful or not. Now let me show you
just how easy it is to perform fising on
your own on a simple web application.
Okay, so generally this is how things
look like. Okay, we have our PC here on
the left which is running some sort of
web browser. Okay, because we're testing
a web application. And of course on the
right we're going to have a website or
the web application that we're supposed
to test. Now of course your web browser
is normally going to send HTTP request
packets directly to the web application
and the web application of course is
going to reply directly to you. Now, for
this fuzzing scenario here, we're going
to introduce a new component in the
middle of this communication here. I'm
going to call that a web proxy or an
intercept proxy. And the purpose of this
web proxy is to act like a man in the
middle between your PC and the website.
So instead of just sending your HTTP
requests directly to the website, you're
now sending them to the web proxy and
the web proxy is going to assemble its
own requests and it's going to send them
to the web application on your behalf.
And of course, any answers that come
back from the web application. Well, the
app is going to reply to whoever
initiated that connection in this
situation is still going to be the web
proxy. So the proxy is going to see your
requests as well as your responses. Now
the advantage of using a web proxy like
this is that we can not only intercept
that traffic and inspect it but we can
actually work with it. We can change it.
We can modify the uh the parameters in
your requests and we can even generate
synthetic requests on our own. And uh in
our example here, I'm going to show you
in a couple of seconds, uh we're going
to use Burp Suite, which is a very sweet
application and a very capable uh web
proxy, interception proxy, and actually
has a bunch of features, very, very fun
and interesting features here. I'm going
to come back here to Burp Suite later on
in a later video, but for now, we're
just going to use it to intercept our
requests and then generate a bunch of
requests based on that initial request
that we captured just so we can throw
various inputs to our web application
and see how it reacts, how it behaves.
Now, the app that we're going to be
testing is called the damn vulnerable
web application, which is a freeto
download application that uh is
purposefully vulnerable to a lot of
exploits and attacks. And in our
situation here, we're going to be
jumping over to the cross-ey scripting
stored method here because uh this one
is just a simple page that allows us to
add a name. So, for example, if I add my
name in here and say this is an awesome
website, right? I can just sign this
virtual guestbook and the message is
going to be stored in a database and
shown back to the user. Now, what we're
going to do here is we're going to
attempt to fuzz the inputs on this web
page and see how the application is
going to behave when we send some
unexpected inputs to one of these two
text fields. Now, if you're curious, uh
you can run this damn vulnerable web
application as a virtual machine or the
recommended way I would say simply
because it's so much quicker, so much
easier is to run it inside of a Docker
container. Uh which is exactly what I
did right here. You can see the command
to run this as a Docker container. Uh
the image is publicly available on
Docker Hub and anything else related to
Docker, that's going to be a whole
different training. All right. So, for
now, let's get back to Burp Suite. Now,
Burp Suite is available as a free
edition as well called the community
edition. So, you can download it and
play with it as much as you want. And
you can see it does support a bunch of
features here at the top row. And right
now, we're interested in the proxy
functionality. Now the only thing I need
to do here in this tab is to set
intercept to on. Which means that right
now if I have a browser that points its
proxy settings to Burpuite, Burpuite is
going to be able to intercept all those
requests and replies. All right. So
let's switch back to our browser and
let's add another entry here. Shorter
one this time. And if I click sign guest
book, you can see I don't have the the
feedback right away. Well, that's
because Burp Suite intercepted my
request. And you can see it right here.
That's the entire HTTP header that was
sent by me and the payload. This is my
name and this is the test text that I've
added in my comment. Now, starting from
this request, we can use it as a
template and then we can change one or
more parameters here that are normally
sent to the web page and see how the web
application reacts to those changes. So
what I can do here now is to rightclick
anywhere on the request and select send
to intruder. It's mostly a uh a
functionality which is designed for
penetration testing. That's why it's
called intruder. But it actually also
does exactly what we needed to do. You
can see the intruder tab now has
highlighted here at the at the top.
These here are the settings for the
location of the website. And if we jump
here to the positions tab, this is where
you're going to see all the placeholders
that can be fuzzed by this intruder
functionality. Right now, we don't need
all of them. So, I'm just going to clear
everything in here and just select the
username. Right? We're going to try to
fuzz just the username field. And I'm
going to say that I want this username
field to be considered as a variable or
a placeholder for the fuzzing process.
Now, we're going to proceed to the
payloads tab. And this is where you
actually configure what kind of input
you want to send during your fuzzing
processor. We're going to generate
multiple requests. How are they going to
be different from one another? And you
have a number of options for this. We
can start from just a simple list like
how does this website behave when I put
my name in here? How does it behave when
I put a number? How does it behave when
I put some uh unprintable characters or
some uh let's say HTML or JavaScript
code and so on. Now in this case we can
actually do something a bit more
interesting and um let's try using
character blocks because uh this one
here is an interesting functionality and
actually allows us to start from a base
string and then multiply it as many
times as we want just to see how the
application behaves when the input
that's coming from the users uh grows to
potentially an unmanageable size. So you
can use something like a simple string
right here like ABC and the uh let's say
we're going to choose a minimum length
of uh 50 and the maximum length of
10,000 characters with a step of 50. So
it's basically going to multiply the
string right here 50 characters bigger
every single time and see how the
application reacts when the name gets
longer and longer and uh that's pretty
much it. All right, let's click on start
attack.
And here are the requests coming in. Now
you can probably see we're up to 600 700
characters already
and the delay is more and more visible.
So the application is struggling to
process this input more and more with
every request. Now, for now, you can see
the status is still 200, which means
that the HTTP request is processed is
accepted. But at some point here, if we
just let this run for a while, we're
probably going to hit a mark where the
application is going to start throwing
errors. Maybe the database is going to
start returning uh timeouts. And
basically, that's where we're going to
figure out that this is a type of input
that our application cannot handle. Now,
normally if you look at the behavior
like this, uh this is something that you
shouldn't allow your users to do from
the very beginning. So, you shouldn't
just allow a user to uh upload a 2,00
character username to your um guest book
or to your web forum. This is some sort
of input validation that you're supposed
to do on the server side. Don't let just
anybody upload whatever they want into
your into your database. And if you
want, you can also have a look at how
the actual request is going to look like
uh for each and every attempt right
here. All right, let's cancel this one.
All right, so we're back here in the
fuzzing page for uh for Burp Suite and
we're going to go and disable the
interception. All right, we're going to
set intercept off. And if we go back to
our browser, we can see all our inputs
here generated by the fuzzer. They ended
up in the database which they shouldn't
have if we had some proper input
validation. But nevertheless, this is
how you can uh properly fuzz any kind of
input at least to any web application.
Right? Give it a try. Play with Burpit
on your own. It's free to install. A
damn vulnerable web application is also
free to try. Just play with the fuzzing
functionality. Now you can probably
guess that this fuzzing as we just
described it can also be used as a brute
force attempt to break into the login
page into a web application. Now don't
do this with publicly available
websites. Play with your own lab. Play
with the damn vulnerable web
application. Just don't do it in real
life because you're going to run into
some trouble.
All right, to wrap things up, when
looking for problems and vulnerabilities
in your code, you're probably going to
be looking for issues in one of the
following areas. Starting with
authentication, this is most likely
going to be the first one to be under
attack. Look for specific situations
where authentication could be bypassed
or access to specific resources which
don't take authentication into account.
Also make sure that the process of
validating identities, user identities
and user profiles is performed in a
secure manner cannot be overridden and
also that you're not transmitting
credentials in clear text. Secondly,
injection flaws. This also comes down to
what we talked about in the previous
episode about input validation. Always
sanitize any type of input that you
receive from your users and also always
do it on the server side. Don't trust
your users and don't trust their
clients. Validate that anything that you
receive from your users can be safely
processed and doesn't contain some
hidden executable code. Authorization is
about permissions. Make sure you check
permissions and make sure you check that
every privileged operation is validated
before it is allowed and executed. Also
make sure that you're not allowing your
users to impersonate one another and to
temporarily borrow the permissions from
a more privileged user. Now, when
talking about privilege escalation, this
is exactly where you're supposed to
focus your efforts. Error handling.
Again, it's about providing just enough
information to your users, to your
legitimate users to understand what went
wrong, but not enough information for a
potential attacker to understand how
your internal security processes work.
For example, never tell a user if just
their username or just their password is
wrong. If an input received from one of
your users doesn't comply with your
requirements, don't give that user the
entire SQL statement that failed or the
entire log entry that shows what kind of
processes are running in the back end
and where the the application issue
actually happened. Normal users don't
need to see this. Normal users don't
need to see what's behind the curtain.
Don't forget about encryption at rest.
So when you store data for long-term,
for short term, even when you store data
on the user's devices as a a cache, a
temporary cache for example, and also
don't forget about encryption in transit
whenever you're communicating data, when
you're transferring from your users to
your users or to any other third-party,
I don't know, maybe cloud services or
other companies that you might integrate
with other products. Always always
communicate securely. Use encryption and
use strong encryption. Logging and
auditing. Don't forget about this either
because this is what helps you pinpoint
problems in your software and also helps
you determine if you have any
performance problems, if you have been
breached, if some users are experiencing
problems even before they start
complaining. Always have proper logging
and auditing in your applications. But
make sure it's performed in a secure
manner. don't allow just anybody to view
those logs to access them or not to
mention this dreadful scenario when a
user can actually delete those logs as
well. Don't allow users to delete their
traces. Log everything. Trust no one.
Session flaws. We're going to talk more
about this. We're going to talk about
session hijacking. But mostly this is
going to be about protecting the actual
identity of a user while they are
interacting with your application. Make
sure that another user, make sure that
an attacker is not able to impersonate a
legitimate user, is not able to guess
their their session identifiers, is not
going to be able to take over their
session and compromise their accounts.
And finally, the last one, but by no
means the final topic here, but we've
reached the end of the slide, is
insecure configurations. Now, insecure
configurations can mean any number of
things. Now, insecure configurations can
address uh defaults that come
preconfigured from the uh the software
vendor, test accounts, test data, or
simply having specific security
functionality implemented in your
application but not enabled by default.
Don't trust your users to be so security
savvy and so uh let's say uh security
oriented. Make sure that by default
you're providing them with a secure
application, a secure environment. It
doesn't help anyone if you do have that
functionality in there, but nobody is
using it.
All right, that's it. Make sure you
understand and that you're able to
explain to yourself at least all these
different testing methodologies that
we've covered today. Thank you so much
for watching and I would gladly see you
next time when we're going to talk about
mitigating specific attack types in
networks, in applications, and even
more. Thanks for watching. Like and
subscribe if you found this useful, and
see you next time.
[Music]