[Music]
Hi everybody, welcome back here and even
if you're new to this channel, thank you
for clicking on this episode. Today
we're going to continue our discussion
about uh several web related attacks and
mitigation techniques. Now we still have
a couple more to cover and among these a
few of them have something in common and
that is session management. So what is a
session? Now to keep the story short, a
session is just a piece of information.
most of the time is just a a randomly
generated very large number which is
generated by the web application by the
website whenever you first interact with
it or when you first log into that
website is stored on the website as well
as in your browser and it is used to
uniquely identify you as a unique user
across all kinds of interactions that
you're performing on that website.
sessions are what makes it possible for
you to authenticate just once to Gmail
or to Amazon and then any subsequent
requests that you send to that website
like searching for a product, sending an
email, adding something to the shopping
cart, placing an order, checking your
email, all these actions can be tied to
your account. So, a session is also
something that keeps you from seeing
somebody else's shopping cart uh from
accessing somebody else's email or from
accidentally ordering something from
Amazon and delivering it to somebody
else's address. And we can also use this
unique identifier, this session
identifier to connect your identity to
some other piece of information that
might be stored on the website. For
example, your profile settings or the
contents of your shopping cart. So
basically once you're authenticated to a
website, the session information becomes
somewhat like a unique password
generated just for you, just for your
account and perhaps even just for a
limited amount of time that allows you
to interact with that website even
further. Now, since the session
information is the only thing that
identifies you as a valid user of that
website, this information must be
protected because whoever has access to
that session information can impersonate
you because that's the only thing that
is required by the website. A valid
session ID. If you present a valid
session ID, then any actions that are
allowed on the web application by the
user that matches that session ID are
going to be executed, are going to be
accepted. So with a stolen session ID,
somebody can post on Facebook on your
behalf, can send emails on your behalf,
or order stuff from Amazon on your
behalf. Okay. So how is this implemented
in real life? Well, if we're talking
about web applications, we're basically
going to talk about the HTTP protocol.
And the problem is that the HTTP
protocol was designed from the very
beginning to be stateless. That is we
have no method of storing persistent
session related information in our HTTP
requests. Though the HTTP protocol was
designed so that one request would have
absolutely nothing to do with the next
request. That's stateless. There is no
state information in those requests. So
we invented something new and that
something is called a web cookie. Now
the cookie is just a small piece of data
that is generated by the web server and
it's sent along with the response
header. So when the web server responds
to you then it's going to also send you
this is the cookie that I've generated
for you. Then it is expected from the
client browser to include this cookie
information on all subsequent requests
that it sends to that website. And
having the same cookie information in
all future requests makes them belong to
the same user session as far as the web
server is concerned. So as long as the
web server keeps seeing the same cookie
value in a series of requests, it can
determine that all those requests come
from the same user, same computer, same
browser. Now, if the cookie information
is missing or you're sending the wrong
cookie information, then the server is
going to behave like it doesn't know who
you are. So, it's probably going to
redirect you to the login page or simply
give you an error. And by the way, we
can also have non-persistent cookies
which are just stored in the browser's
memory or persistent cookies that are
stored in your browser's cache. So, on
your disk, you've definitely seen
persistent cookies in all those websites
where you have a on the login page, you
have a checkbox for remember me or
remember my user login for next time.
That option tells the web server to
generate a persistent cookie that has
been stored in your local cache. And
then next time you visit the same
website, you're simply going to be
sending the same saved cookie and not go
through the entire authentication
process again. And those are also the
cookies that get deleted whenever you,
you know, delete your personal data or
your browsing history when when you
check cookies in your browser as well.
Okay. So cookies kind of work like
passwords, right? So we have to secure
them, right? And well, I don't think I
need to mention that securing cookie
information in transit while they are
being transferred to your browser uh
should be done just like with any other
kind of sensitive information mostly by
using TLS. So, transport layer security
using HTTPS when talking to the web
server. But remember that even a TLS
encrypted cookie is still a clear text
cookie when it gets stored in the
browser's cache. So encrypted cookies at
rest encrypting the contents of the
cookie is up to the application
developer. Anyway, there are a couple of
cookie attributes that you can look
after uh as best practices when securing
web applications. The first one is the
secure attribute. This one tells the web
browser to only send that cookie
information to the web server if the
connection is a secured one. So if it
uses HTTPS. Next one, HTTP only. This is
another attribute that is very useful at
preventing a type of attack that we'll
be covering in the next few minutes
which is called cross-sight request
forgery. Now before we get there, the
HTTP only attribute is going to prevent
access from clientside scripting to that
cookiey's contents. In other words, a
JavaScript that's running in your
browser is not going to be able to
access information from that cookie,
which is useful because JavaScript code
could be malicious. same site. Another
useful attribute because it requires the
request, the HTTP request itself as well
as the cookie to come from the same
website name or website domain. This is
very useful against fighting those bogus
requests created or forged by attackers
on from different websites. And finally,
we don't want to let cookies live
forever because that's sensitive
information. The longer we store that
information, the higher the risk of it
being compromised. Now, what happens
when a cookie expires? Well, you can
probably guess it happens just like the
first time you visit a website, right?
You're going to go through the
authentication process and if you
successfully pass authentication, then
the website is going to generate a brand
new cookie for you with a new expiration
timer. Okay, so we have sensed
information stored in those cookies and
we're at a cyber security training. So,
the next question should be, how do we
steal this information? Well, the
official term for this is session
hijacking, which is basically just a
method of taking over somebody else's
session without them knowing about this.
What's the purpose? Of course, to
impersonate that user and send requests
on their behalf. Now, how can this
happen? Well, the most common way is to
just intercept that session information
when it is being transmitted to the
user. This requires an attack along the
lines of a man in the middle. So you
need to intercept that traffic, be able
to decode it and be able to see that
session information and then reuse it in
your own requests. Less common, but just
as dangerous, is by using a compromised
browser. So a browser that has been
hacked, that has been compromised by an
attacker has the ability of, of course,
revealing what information it receives
when communicating with a website and
potentially sending this information to
an attacker, including your passwords
and your session information. Another
method which this time is also related
to a programming error uh might be about
a bad algorithm for generating those
session ids those those cookies. Now if
the generation algorithm is so bad that
the cookies it generates can be
predicted then well there isn't much
need for session hijacking at all is it
basically if an attacker can predict one
or more session values it can take over
a session that hasn't even been
established yet that's why I said at the
very beginning that those session ids
are usually very large randomly
generated numbers so that they cannot be
predicted and we can also think about
other bad programming ing practices like
exposing that session ID right on the
website or in the URL or under the
user's profile simply because the
programmer doesn't know that the session
information is sensitive information.
Now you might think this is trivial. You
would be amazed how many websites make
this mistake. So generally best
practices dictate that session
generation should be firstly
non-predictable and secondly well we
need to ensure that the sessions expire
and require reauthentication after some
time after a certain time span. Another
term and attack type that you might
encounter is called cookie poisoning.
Now, cookie poisoning refers to an
attack that attempts to change the
content of a cookie after it was
generated in an attempt to send that
altered cookie to the website and then
use it to exploit some vulnerability in
that web application or that web server.
So, it can even translate into a method
of performing code injection through a
malformed cookie. How do you defend
against this? Well, validate your input.
The cookie is also a type of input
because you're receiving it from your
users. Make sure that the cookie
contains only expected values, not
executable code, for example. And
perhaps even implement a mechanism that
can ensure that the cookie hasn't been
tampered with because there shouldn't be
any changes performed to that cookie
from the original version that was
generated on the web server. The client
has no business changing that that
session value. Of course, don't forget
to encrypt them whenever you store them
or whenever you you transmit them. And
also remember to delete those cookies
from the cache automatically or manually
from time to time or whenever the client
terminates the session. That's the
logout functionality. Now, I know most
people don't use the logout
functionality, but make sure it's there
and that it does what it's supposed to
do, that is to clear cookie information
from the web server. You don't need to
worry about cookie information on the
client side because as long as the
cookie on the client side has no
corresponding match on the web server,
then it's uh it's simply just a useless
value. So let's see an example of how
badly generated session IDs can look
like. Now on this web page here, it says
that it will generate a new cookie
called DVWA session each time this
button is clicked. And you're not going
to see anything happening because the
session information happens in the
background. But we can see that session
value if we open developer mode. So
we'll head over here to the network tab
and then click it one more time. Now the
first one here you can see has a status
of 200 and it's of type document. That's
the one that we're interested in. And
this is going to be the main page that
comes as a response from the web server.
Now, right here in the response header
section, we can see that the set cookie
parameter points to a DVWA session
equals 4458.
Now, let's click this one more time.
Going to click generate again. Head over
to the first document here. You can see
this time is 4459.
Generate again. And as you can expect,
this time is going to be 4460.
So, the session information is just a
simple consecutive number. This is very
badly generated because anybody can
predict what the next session is going
to be and even try to guess a valid
session that has already been generated.
Now you can see that the security level
of this uh vulnerable web application is
currently set to low. So let's increase
it just a bit. I'm going to set it from
low to medium.
We'll go back here to weak session IDs
and uh let's try to see how those
session numbers look like. Now I'm going
to click generate again on the network
tab. First document and the DVWA session
is now a longer number, a more complex
number. Is this random or not? Now this
kind of looks more promising, right? It
looks like a number that we won't be
able to just guess or can we? Now to
better understand just how random that
value really is, we're going to use Burp
Suite. So under the proxy tab going to
set interception to on and then click
generate one more time. And uh as we
expect we can see that same cookie value
here at the bottom. So this is our
request that we're sending towards the
web server and we're including this
cookie as well. We can however take this
entire request and then send it to
sequencer.
Head over to the sequencer tab and then
start the live capture. And as you can
see here by the number of uh the
requests that is still increasing uh the
sequencer is going to send a bunch of
requests and then analyze how the
responses to those requests differ from
each other. How much randomness is in
the responses that we received from the
web server which is a great way of
determining if that uh unique value
that's supposed to be the session ID is
random or not. All right. Uh we're going
to stop it right here because we already
have enough requests and and I'm going
to click analyze now.
As you can see here, the overall result
says that the randomness within the
samples is estimated to be extremely
poor. Why is that? Well, there's a very
simple explanation to this. That one is
that session ID is not a random value.
But what is it? Well, we can try to
figure this out. First, let's stop the
sequencer here. Let's go back to the
proxy tab and then copy this value into
our clipboard and head over to the
command line. Well, one thing I can do
is to paste this within the date command
and try to decode this as a time stamp.
And apparently that seemingly random
number, it's actually a time stamp.
Actually, it's the Unix epoch time. So,
it's a number of seconds elapsed since
the 1st of January 1970. As you can see
here, the time that is encoded in this
number right here is at the actual time
right now at the time of this recording.
So again, this is a bad session ID
generation algorithm. Anybody can guess
the right session ID simply by looking
at the time. Let's increase the
difficulty just a bit more. So let's
head over to the vulnerable web
application. Turn intercept off and then
increase the security level to high. All
right, now the security level is set to
high. Let's go back to weak session IDs.
Click the generate button a couple of
times here. Start developer mode. Move
over to the network section and then
click generate again. Right, we're going
to head over to the first document
header section. And this time we're
going to find that the set cookie
right here points to a DVWA session with
this value. Now, as you can see, this is
no longer a time stamp. This is
hexadimal. But what does it look like?
Does it look like something familiar to
you? Uh what if I told you that this
right here has 128 bits? Don't trust me?
Just just count the letters here.
Multiply by four and that's number of
bits. You're going to find 32 characters
in this string right here. That's
because this is an MD5 hash. Let's see
if we can reverse this hash. to do. So,
we'll head over back to our command line
right here. And I'm going to use the
hashcat utility just like this.
Now, the hashcat utility can be used as
a brute force password cracking program.
What I'm going to do here is we're going
to use it using an uh an attack method
of three, which means brute force. A
dash m that's going to be the hashing
algorithm. In our case, zero means MD5.
This one here is the hash that we just
copied from the HTTP request. And uh
this is a pattern here where we expect
to find as a result a uh number of at
most four digits, right? Just to keep
this simple. Let's leave this for a
couple of seconds here to run. And we're
done. Right? It took less than 1 second
actually. And if we scroll back up here,
we're going to see that the equivalent
for this hash is this number right here,
number five. So basically what we have
right here and we think that this is a
unique random value for the session
identifier is nothing else than a simple
MD5 hash of a sequential number. This is
the fifth time I've clicked the generate
button. And this is the MD5 hash value
of number five. For number six or number
seven for any future session ID, I can
easily guess the right value here simply
by performing the standard MD5 hashing
algorithm. So even though this looks
random, it is not. And actually we can
even fool some penetration testing tools
like Burpuite using an algorithm like
this. Let's turn on intercept. Let's
click generate one more time. It's going
to get intercepted by Burp Suite. Let's
send this again to sequencer. Let's
remove the old one. All right. And start
a live capture.
Going to generate a couple of requests
here. Let's click on stop and then click
analyze now. And as you can see, the
overall result is that the randomness of
the sample is estimated to be excellent,
but it's not right. It's a it seems like
it's an it's a random value, but at a
closer look, it's just an MD5 hash of a
single sequential number. So, careful
with this. Many web applications use
this method to seemingly generate random
session IDs. If it looks like a an MP5
hash, if it looks like a Shaw hash, then
it might be so easy to crack to guess
the nest session number and to
impersonate some other user. All right,
next up on the list is cross-sight
request forgery, sometimes abbreviated
XSRF as well. So, what is this? Well,
this is an interesting one. It's
basically uh kind of an exploit for
cookie based web applications, which
also implies just a bit of social
engineering. So, what do we have here?
Well, we have a valid website on the
right. It might be a bank or whatever
website. We have an attacker on the left
and uh they also have their own website
and then that's you in the middle, your
victim's browser, your computer. So,
what happens here? Well, one day you
just decide you want to visit your
bank's website. You just legitimately
visit that website. You authenticate,
everything is good, and you leave that
website open somewhere in a tab in your
browser and you forget about it. And at
some point during that day, uh, you
receive an email, you receive an instant
message, maybe you see a forum post with
an interesting link, and you decide to
click that link. Now, that link is going
to point you unknowingly to an
attacker's website. Well, the attacker's
web page might also include a piece of
cross-sight request forgery code just
like this. What's in this code? Well,
it's a simple web form that, as you can
see, points to your bank's website and
to its transaction page and also
includes some hidden parameters in
there. One of them being the destination
account, perhaps the currency, and
perhaps the money amount that is to be
transferred. So, in our case here, it's
going to be $2,000 to be transferred
into the attacker's account. And the
last line here on the screen is a small
JavaScript code that simply submits this
form automatically. the moment you visit
that web page. So, you already logged in
to your bank's website and now the
browser sees a request that is supposed
to be sent to that valid website.
Nothing wrong here as far as the web
browser is concerned. What happens
though is that you're basically going to
be sending a request, a money transfer
request to that banking website where
you're logged in without even knowing
about it. This right here is an example
of cross-ite request forgery. So an
attacker is basically forging or faking
a request to a valid website where we
have a valid account with valid login
without our knowledge. Now since you're
already logged in, well the banking
website has a valid session identifier
for you. That session identifier is
going to be used in this request just
like in any other request that might be
initiated by you. And chances are that
the request is going to be processed by
the website because the website knows
that the request came from your browser
from an authenticated session, but it
doesn't know that you are not aware of
it. That's the tricky part of
cross-sight request forgery. And if you
think about it for a second, we can use
this method for a large number of
attacks. Not just uh you know fraudulous
money transfer, but we could also
instruct the web browser to download a
piece of malware. We can send such a
request to a colleague in the HR
department because we know they are
always logged in into the payroll
application for example and we can trick
their browser into forging a request
that makes changes in the payroll
application. We can even send such a
request to the finance or accounting
department
knowing that they're always logged in
into the uh invoicing application and
you know create fake invoices on their
behalf.
The possibilities are endless. So how
can we protect against this? Well, as
the browser is the main actor here, the
the main component that's involved in
this attack, unfortunately, there's not
much we can do on the browser side
because as far as the browser is
concerned, that's a valid HTTP request
generated by valid webpage code. The
browser has no way of figuring out
whether you are aware of that request or
not. So let's see how we can fix this
this time on the server side, the web
application side. Now the main method of
securing against cross-sight request
forgery is by using CSRF tokens. Now
these are very similar to session
variables that we just saw in our
cookies. But this time we're generating
some random values that we're embedding
within the HTML forms on the website. So
the moment you submit an HTML form in a
web page, you're also going to submit
that cross- site request forgery token
and of course it has to match. Now this
also means that if the same form is
being submitted automatically by some
external code, some external malicious
code from another website, that code
will have no way of knowing what that
CSRF token is. So the request coming
from a different web page is going to be
ignored. These tokens can be generated
for the entire session. So right after
you log into the website or even per
page. So every time you change your page
within a web application, you can get a
different CSRF token generated for you.
And those are websites where you see
that the back functionality doesn't work
that well or even doesn't work at all
because every single page that is
generated including the the one that
you're trying to go back to using the
back functionality in your web browser
is going to be accepted only with a
different CSRF token. And once you've
navigated away from one page that token
is lost and that's why you cannot in
some web pages use the back
functionality. Now, of course, be extra
careful. Don't communicate this token
using cookies because cookies, if not
secured properly, can be read by
JavaScript code and some other website
might be able to read that value from a
valid cookie that is stored in your
browser's cache and then reuse it to
forge a request to that same website.
Now, this method works for stateful
applications where we can store on the
server that token information. Now, if
we cannot store token information on the
server, we can use something called a
double submit cookie. And I know this
kind of sounds like some sort of Oreo
cookie, but a double submit cookie is
basically a method where we send the
same large random value in both a cookie
and a hidden input field inside of a
form. The server then only needs to see
if those two match. Now, of course,
since we're relying on sensitive
information inside our cookies, then we
definitely have to protect our cookies.
Another method is by using specific HTTP
headers like domain, origin or referral.
All of them are concerned with
validating that the request is coming
from a valid website address, which is
exactly what doesn't happen when we are
facing a cross-ite request forgery
attack. Generally checking the origin or
referral headers is considered to be
safer because those two are types of
headers that you cannot programmatically
change using JavaScript. Only the
browser can change those parameters and
we kind of trust the browser a bit more
than we trust the code that the browser
is executing. Another parameter here,
another attribute is the same site which
instructs the browser whether to send or
not a cookie that doesn't match the
website it was designed for. Also, you
might find it trivial, but captures are
also a very nice mitigation technique.
At least they warn the user about the
fact that they're about to execute or to
submit a special type of request.
Captures simply involve the user, you
know, to validate I'm a human or to, you
know, find some pictures of a bike, for
example. But they're also a way of
making sure that a certain type of
request cannot be sent without the
user's awareness. And finally,
protecting our cookies, just like we
described a couple of minutes ago, is
going to help, but it's not going to be
enough because regardless how well we
protect those cookies, the browser still
has access to them. And if the web
application is badly programmed, and
even if our cookies are encrypted in
transit or at rest, they're still very
much usable in a CSRF attack. So just
like we saw a couple of minutes ago,
HTTP only to make sure that we don't
have programmatic access to those
cookies. Secure to encrypt them. Uh path
which specifies which address or which
subdomains or for which website path
those cookies are valid. Uh setting
expiration timers of course requiring
reauthentication and so on. All these
methods are going to help you but
they're not going to be enough precisely
for cross-ite request forgery. And of
course let's see some CSRF in action.
Now on this page here we can change the
admin password. So basically if I just
type here let's say 1 2 3 and then 1 2 3
to confirm it and click change. Now the
password has been changed. Have a look
at the URL
or even better let's just open developer
mode again and type one two three one
more time. Click document here and at
the very bottom you can see that the
query string parameters are password new
one two three password conf from
confirmation 1 2 3 and the operation is
change. So basically it's really easy
now to craft a specific URL like this in
order to trick a user a logged in user
into changing their passwords without
them even knowing. So let's see how we
can forge a request like this. Now for
this I just started a docker container
here. So the second one here is running
EngineX. That's a very simple and
lightweight web server running on port
8080 and it's called hacked web. And
this web server here is going to host a
fake website that I'm going to use to
trick my user into accessing it and then
performing this cross- site request
forgery. Now let's connect inside of
this container and see what's the
content of its web page. So I'll just go
ahead and docker exec inside of this
hacked web container and launch bash
inside of it. All right, I'm inside of
container right now. So let's display
the contents of index html that will be
presented by whoever accesses this site.
And that's going to be located at user
share engineext html index.html.
And that's the website code, right? It
says here, welcome to my completely safe
website. And then we have an image tag.
But have a look at the source of that
image. The source of that image actually
points to my damn vulnerable web
application. That's a web application
where I'm already logged in with a valid
request here that says password new
equals hacked and password confirmation
equals hacked again. All right. So let's
see how this looks like in a browser.
Coming back here to our victim's
computer, we open a new tab and let's
try to access that very website. Welcome
to my completely safe website. All
right, nothing else visible on this
page. But if I go back here
to the damn vulnerable web application
and let's say I just log out, right,
let's let's close this um developer view
as well. And I try to log in using admin
and the password hacked. Well,
apparently my login just works. I've
successfully changed the admin password
on this website without the admin even
knowing simply by tricking the admin
into visiting an apparently completely
inoffensive web page. This is
cross-sight request forgery and this is
the forged request right here in the
website code.
Now there are a couple of things that
you might be thinking now. Well, what if
my website parameters are not exposed in
the address bar like that? So, it's it's
not everything exposed in a get request.
What if it's a post request? Well, if
it's a post request, then we're back to
the first example here on the slide. So,
in this example, we have a hidden form
that gets automatically submitted as a
post request by JavaScript code that
gets executed on the same page. So,
there's no difference between a get
request or a post request. They can both
be very easily used to perform CSRF. On
the other hand, you might be thinking,
well, how is the attacker going to know
which sites I'm visiting, which which
bank I'm using, you know, which online
shop I'm I'm regularly visiting. There's
no way to, you know, try every banking
website in the world and try to to fake
requests towards all types of
destinations that your users might be
might happen to be logged into. Well,
there are two points of view here. First
of all, remember the fact that the
attacker only needs to be successful
once.
Even if the attack fails 100 times, if
it's successful just once, it's still
called a successful attack. Secondly,
think about the fact that these are much
better suited as targeted attacks where
you know exactly the person that you're
trying to attack. You know what their
habits are. You can probably find out
which website the HR department uses to
order, I don't know, pizza or sandwiches
at lunchtime or where a specific manager
goes to order, I don't know, airport
transfer. You can target these links
with CSRF code in them towards people
that you know the HR department that has
access to the payroll app or to the
finance department that has access uh to
the invoicing app and can forge valid
requests specifically for those
applications especially if those
applications are developed internally or
just used internally probably the
security is going to be weak to say the
least.
Finally the last one for today is called
clickjing. This one is a method of
stealing a user's inputs in a web page.
So, it basically works by changing a
link in a web page or by inserting a
transparent layer with an inline frame
on top of a web page. This way, you can
trick a user into clicking a different
link than the one intended or into
typing their credentials into a
different form than the real one. Of
course, the fake form is going to send
those credentials to the attacker and
not to the real website. How can you
accomplish this? Well, you have to find
a way to inject additional code into
that website. Cross-ite scripting is a
great starting point. So, how do we
protect against this? Well, one method
to protect against inline frames is
called frame busting and it uses a short
very short JavaScript code like this one
uh that forces the web page content to
be the topmost element in the page. So
if he checks whether the web page is at
the topmost level and if it's not it
simply relocate itself to the top
location thus not allowing additional
iframes on top of it. This is a basic
defense against clickjing. Now other
measures can be set up using HTTP
headers like X-frame options which can
have any of the following parameters
like deny, same origin or allow from
which dictate if and what kind of framed
content is accepted on that specific web
page. All right, so we're pretty much
done with the web application attacks.
That was a long one. So I really hope
you found this informative, useful, and
easy to follow and understand. If you
did, don't forget to like and subscribe
and hope to see you next time when we
talk about privilege escalation and
password cracking. See you next time.
[Music]