[Music]
Okay. So we we have to talk about email
too because even though email is just
one single communication channel, it is
so widespread. The companies still rely
heavily on email every single day. And
since we have such a large user base for
email and it has been around since since
forever since the beginning of the
internet, we have so many attack vectors
on email and it's just a a gift that
keeps on giving malware
ever since 1971.
All right, so let's start with fishing.
This is the first type of attack for
email that it's actually the only one
that can be executed without any kind of
technology at all. It's also sometimes
called impersonation. And fishing is the
most common type of email social
engineering. And as a concept, fishing
has nothing to do with technology simply
because it attacks the weakest link, the
human link. Now, its purpose is to trick
the receiver into believing that the
message comes from a different source or
into believing that the contents of the
email is is legitimate when in fact it's
not. And the purpose is to extract some
sensitive information out of the victim.
For example, if you believe that a
message came from your boss, you might
be willing to answer and disclose some
company sensitive information. If you
believe that the message came from HR,
uh you might give away a ton of personal
information. If you're not very
techsavvy and believe that IT support
asks you for your password because
apparently they have to upgrade your
email system. Well, you can see where
this is going. And we do have some
subtypes, some subcategories
for uh for email fishing. The first one
is spear fishing. These are messages
targeted to specific persons rather than
a a mass mailing. Uh second one is
whailing. These are messages targeted at
highlevel executives inside of a
company. Doesn't mean they're fat, it's
just that they're big in their position.
Next one is farming messages containing
links that when you you click those
links they redirect you to a website
that looks like your email login page
for example or your your bank's login
page except that they're not of course
those are hosted by the attacker and
they're made to look trustworthy. If you
enter your credentials in there what
you're basically doing is handing over
those credentials to the attacker's
website. remember farming because it's
an important exam topic as well. Next,
we have email forwarding which is not
exactly an attack type in itself. It's
just a practice of crafting the email
subject and the body of the email to
make them look like they belong to a
chain of email replies and at some point
you were just added in the middle of the
discussion. In some cases, it can look
convincing because you can see some of
the quoted replies belonging to some uh
some authority figure, some well-known,
respectable colleagues in your company
in the same email, but it's actually
just a social engineering attempt and
that information is crafted by the
attacker with the knowledge that they've
gathered from open source intelligence.
One more thing here. Uh, while it is
quite easy to spoof the header of an
email and make it look like it came from
someone else, it is much easier if you
actually compromise a real email account
from within the company. You can steal
the password from it. You can uh you can
use it then to send emails as another
person in their name. And this is known
as Beck or business email compromise.
Actually, let's just call it BEC. Beck
kind sounds kind of weird. Now, every
email has a header and that header
contains a lot of useful metadata, meta
information that keeps being added by
every hop along the way. Of course,
starting with the source and they
contain a wealth of information, not
only the the sender and the recipient,
but also a lot of information about any
of the servers and their security
settings, all the servers that handled
that email in transit. Now analyzing
this information if you know what to
look for is usually enough for
determining spoofed emails and actually
this uh this header analysis is often
used to to determine spam emails as
well. Now some of the things to look out
for and by the way this is generally
done by an automated tool uh like a spam
filter but you can also try to analyze
an email header and find this
information using your own human eyes
are going to be the fields uh such as
display from this is the sender's email
address. This is going to be displayed
in your email client when you receive
the email. And now this can have a
friendly name followed by the uh the
actual address between the angle bracket
signs. Now, most email clients will only
display this friendly name. So, what can
you do if you want an email to look like
it came from, I don't know, Bill Gates?
Well, you're right. You can just spoof
this uh this email header display from.
Now, envelope from or return path.
That's going to be the return address.
This is where the email came from. This
is where the replies are going to go.
It's going to include some additional
information such as the sender's IP
address perhaps. And this one is going
to be used if the receiving server is
going to reject your email. The
rejection notice will be sent back to
this address. Uh received by and
received from. This is going to be just
a list of email servers that processed
the email in transit. Uh delivered to
obviously who it was sent to. uh date
and time, when it was sent, the the
timestamps, uh return path and
authentication results. Uh these are
going to be related to the sender's
authentication methods, what
authentication methods they use when
they delivered the message to you.
uh just a couple of interesting tools
that you can use for mail analysis like
the suit of tools from uh Microsoft
related to Office 365 and for example
they're going to allow you to check the
uh the inbound or outbound connections
like pop email IMAP uh inbound SMTP and
outbound SMTP for example the outbound
SMTP test here is going to check your
outbound IP address so the public IP
address of your email server that you're
using to send email uh just to check if
it passes some uh some ability checks.
It's not on a blacklist and you can
actually use that email address uh that
IP address to uh to send legitimate
mail. All right, this is one such tool
freely available. Another one
interesting is the mail header analyzer.
Again, one of the websites hosted on
Azure. Uh they're going to allow you to
paste your email headers in here. You
you actually have to get the the raw
version of your email headers and paste
them in here. I actually have one ready
right here from Gmail. Uh this is part
of a newsletter that I'm getting. Uh you
can access the original message by
clicking on the three dots on your uh
your email uh message and then click on
view original. Right. Once we're uh down
to this view here, I can just copy it to
the clipboard
and paste it back here in the mail
header analyzer. And there we go. Here
at the bottom of the page, you're going
to see a lot of the the fields that
we've already mentioned. Of course,
there are a lot more and you can see the
their exact contents here. And uh you
can use these for uh for email
validation for email server validation
and check to see if the email has been
spoofed or not. But all the content is
in here. Of course, you can actually
read this uh this um this header
manually if you wish. It's just a bit
more difficult to identify all these
fields in a uh in a text blob like this.
All right. So we looked at the email
headers. Let's have a look at the
payloads as well. Well, and the payload
is important because it doesn't just
refer to the actual text that you see
inside of an email, but email messages
can have attachments as well. And those
attachments can sometimes be actual
executable binaries that can run machine
code or malware code or they can be
scripts embedded in the HTML code of the
message itself. A lot of the email
messages that travel nowadays are are
actually in HTML format. So you can have
scripts hidden in there and you can have
a script that attempts to exploit even
the email client that tries to display
that content and that happens because
many email clients uh you know trying to
be all user friendly and such. They try
to preview every email message that they
receive to give you as much information
from the from the first glance about
what you're actually
looking at. Some of the email clients
even include the functionality of
previewing active documents like office
documents or PDF files right within the
email client. And of course, let's not
forget that an email can also include
malicious links, links that send you to
a malicious website or that send you to
a u to download a file that is
malicious. Let's say that people are
educated enough to know not to open
attachments. Uh not so many people think
that clicking on a link can actually
hurt you. But that is true. It can hurt
you. It can lead you to a malware site
to a malware content or it can even
include some sort of script that gets
executed in your browser or in in your
email client. Next, we have the email
signature block. Now, you might be
thinking, what on earth can be malicious
inside of a signature block? I I mean,
we're actually referring to the actual
signature that you you type at the end
of your email with your phone number and
your address and your company and
everything else in there, not a digital
signature. Well, it might not be in the
signature itself, but the absence of it
might be a hint or if it doesn't look
right, especially if it's in the company
policy for everybody to sign all their
emails. And when I say it might not look
right, what I'm actually saying is that
you should keep an eye out for things
like wrong contact info in a well-known
signature or even the wrong signature
might prove a hint that somebody tried
to craft that signature and make it look
legit. Now, it might be that the sender
has a very crappy email client that
messes up the signature block,
especially if it's HTML. So, be aware
that a messed up signature doesn't
necessarily mean a spoofed email. Now
since we cannot really trust all our
email users to validate their headers,
can check the contents, perform uh
malicious scans, harden the email
clients, a lot of the email security can
and should be offloaded to the server
itself, to the server side, so we can
catch those threats before they even
reach the laptop or the mobile phone of
that user who just can't wait to click
all the links and open all the
attachments.
And we do have a couple of uh security
mechanisms and technologies that we can
implement on the server side. Now the
first one is SPF or sender policy
framework. I honestly don't know how
they came up with this name because it
sounds nothing like what it does. And
what it does is the following. Now a
company publishes in a DNS. So it's not
email, right? It publishes inside of
their DNS server a TXT record. And there
can be only one SPF entry in every DNS
entry. a list of hosts that are known
valid email servers that belong to the
company that are authorized to send
email on behalf of that company and uh
are the only email servers that are
responsible for that company's domain.
All right, so it's basically listing all
its email servers. Now, somebody with an
email server on the receiving side
getting emails from that company can be
configured to perform what is called a
SPF checking. And now for this, it's
going to use the domain in the return
path header field of the email to look
up the SPF record in the DNS field of
the sender and validate if the email
actually came from that domain or from
one of the domain listed in that SPF
field. Now, SPF records can also specify
what happens if email is received from
servers that are not on our uh advertise
list. We can have the option of
rejecting them all. you can just flag
them inside of your internal email uh
server or down to the email clients of
all your users or we can just simply
accept everything else which means that
we're basically invalidating the SPF
checking. So with SPF enabled on the
receiving side, you probably won't be
able to spoof an email and make it look
like it came from uh Bill Gates at
Microsoft.com, assuming that you're not
a Microsoft employee and just a jobless
hacker wannabe. And you can see that the
SPF checks can also be be seen inside of
the email headers as well. So you can
see the received SPF mention at the
bottom that says that SPF has passed uh
checking for that email message. This is
this check can also be implemented
inside of your spam filter for example
uh just to keep the uh those spoofed
emails outside of your company. Next one
is DKIM or domain keys identified mail.
Again, bad naming here. Uh, it can
replace or augment SPF uh because it's
just a bit smarter. Uh, it uses
cryptography. Specifically, it uses PKI.
So, that's all about, you know, public
and private keys, uh, hashing and
encryption and such. And it kind of
works like this. Again, the company
publishes a a public key as a TXT record
in its DNS servers, just like with SPF,
like we've seen before. And for any sent
messages, specific header fields are
going to be hashed. That hash is going
to be signed with the private key of the
server which basically creates a digital
signature. You should know this by now
of the company's email server. That's
the email signature, the digital
signature of the company's email server.
And then it attaches this digital
signature to the email that is being
delivered. Now on the receiving side, of
course, the receivers can decrypt the
hash using the public key from the
company's DNS record. Of course, that
one is free. This publicly available,
right? calculate the header hash on
their own. And if the calculated hash
matches the signature hash that they
received, then we know that the
company's own server is the one that
actually sent the message. So, not
somebody else, not somebody pre
pretending to be from that company that
has spoofed an email address. And we
also know that the message header hasn't
been changed in the transit because
that's what the integrity part of the
hashing uh allows us to check, right?
The integrity of the message. So that's
DKIM. And we have one more here. This
one is domainbased message
authentication reporting and
conformance. Demar. Now
this names just keep getting better and
better. Now Demar and hopefully we can
just call it demar. It's not exactly
complete new security tool but it's
actually a way to uh define a policy for
using SPF DKIM
one of them or both. Again, this one is
also published as a DNS record and the
domain owner can create a custom demar
policy which is uh basically kind of an
authentication procedure and that demar
policy is going to tell the receiver of
an email which technologies are
currently in use what kind of security
mechanisms are we using in in our
company in our email servers. So, are we
using SPF uh demark? How to check that
the standard is valid? And what to do if
either of these checks fail? And even
one step further, we're providing a
method for reporting if any of these
steps fail. Reporting failures because,
you know, failing such a step doesn't
necessarily mean that something
malicious is happening in there. It just
might be a problem with the
configuration of the email server
itself.
All right. So we have SPF, we have DKIM,
we have Demar, and they're great for
email security, but they only help us
against spoofing. Now, of course,
assuming that users also have strong
passwords, maybe even two-actor
authentication for email, this is going
to help us avoid having compromised
accounts. But so far we still haven't
talked about how we can ensure
confidentiality for the contents that
we're actually sending inside of our
emails or even how to be sure that the
person in the from field actually sent
that message and not somebody else. And
we do have another technology here that
helps us and we have SME here that comes
to the rescue and attempts to solve both
these problems. Now Sime can digitally
sign your emails and even encrypt them.
Well, if you haven't skipped too many
security classes, if I were to tell you
that you need something that identifies
you and only you and you can use it to
sign and encrypt messages, what do you
think that is? That is correct, ladies
and gentlemen. That's a digital
certificate. You will need a valid
certificate signed by a public
certificate authority to sign and or
encrypt the messages that you want to
send. Now, a certificate is not
mandatory for the receiver unless you
want to use encryption. And of course,
unless he or she wants to use a a secure
method to reply back to you. But other
than that, uh to validate the
authenticity of an email, the receiver
only needs to have an email client that
is SM aware that knows how to speak as
mime. All right. So, how exactly does
this work? Now, let's say I want to send
a secure email to you. Now, first I will
need to generate or buy a certificate
signed by a CA that you trust, that I
trust, that we both trust, probably a
public CA. Now that certificate just
like any other certificate is going to
include my public key which can be
freely distributed, copied and it's
paired with a private key which I keep
safe and I never share it with anyone.
Now just a quick recap here. The
concepts behind public and private keys
are very simple ones. Whatever gets
encrypted with the private key can only
be decrypted with the public key and
vice versa. Now next step is I will
write my message and I will hash its
entire contents. the text, the
attachments, everything that goes in
that message. So, I get a one-way hash.
Then I encrypt it with my private key.
Basically, that's the digital signature.
Then I encrypt the rest of the email
body with your public key. And I send my
message to you in a blank email with a
single smachment.
All right. So, when you receive my
message, you can do the following. You
can decrypt my message using your
private key because it was encrypted
with your public key, remember? And
since nobody else should have access to
that private key, we have
confidentiality, right? It's for your
eyes and your eyes only. Then you can
decrypt the hash of the message with my
public key. And you can recalculate the
hash of the contents on your own. And
this step right here is going to prove
two important additional things. First,
if the hash that you calculated matches
the one in the signature, then integrity
is ensured. Nobody modified the message
in transit. And secondly, by
successfully decryting a valid hash with
my public key. This is going to prove
the authenticity of the message, right?
That I and only I sent that message
because I'm the only one that holds the
private key. Actually, this also
provides no repudiation if you think
about it because I cannot even ever deny
having sent that email in the first
place. I'm the only holder of that
private key, which means that if you can
decrypt it with my public key, nobody
else but me actually sent it in the
first place. So, that's the story behind
Sime. It's not a simple one, but it
reuses the concepts that you should
already be familiar with like digital
certificates, um, public and private key
encryption, and hashing algorithms. So,
basically, it's nothing new here. is
just the way we we use these tools to
provide us with increased security for
our email contents and for
authentication and integrity. When it
comes to checking where do those emails
actually came from and when it comes to
security, there's no topic in security
where logging is a bad idea. You should
always inspect email logs generated by
your SMTP or your email server. uh you
should pay special attention to repeated
errors that you can find in those logs
when sending email as they might signal
bad security configurations or even deny
service events. Uh email servers also
communicate in a uh some sort of a
request response manner. Actually the
SMTP protocol is very similar to the
HTTP protocol. So it's still a request
and response relationship in there and
each response is identified by a
numerical code. uh in some aspects these
codes are very similar to those uh those
return codes those response codes also
used by HTTP servers and just to give
you a glimpse of how these SMTP server
return codes look like can head over to
Wikipedia I'm going to provide you the
link in the video description as well as
on the screen be comfortable with at
least a couple of the categories of
these response codes and don't confuse
them with HTTP return codes these are
SMTP return codes and they are returned
as a status of an email interaction
between email servers.
Phew, that was a lot of information. I
mean, for the exam, make sure you
understand what fishing is and those
variations that we mentioned. You're
definitely going to be asked about those
on the exam day. I know how to read at
least a few fields from an email header.
And don't forget about the security
controls that we can use to keep our
email servers clean and safe like SPF
and DKIM for domain validation. Uh DMARK
for creating policies and SMIME which
uses public key cryptography to
digitally sign or even encrypt email
messages when you really need to send
some confidential information. So thank
you so much for watching. I hope you
found this useful and see you next time
when we're going to talk about DLP.
Until next time, don't forget to like
and subscribe and good luck. Bye-bye.
[Music]