[Music]
[Music]
Now you know what this training is not
well it's not a lot of things but it is
not a networking course. We will have
one soon pretty sure. But for now, we
just have to look at how the network in
itself or more exactly how the way the
network is designed impacts our
security. The network is the backbone
for any data that we're supposed to move
from point A to point B. So any attack
and any defense measure is going to rely
at some point on our network. So network
architecture is definitely something
that has a strong impact on security and
well when you we talk about networks the
first thing that comes into mind is
going to be an example of a physical
network that is the actual network that
we can see and touch. So that's the
place where we find you know switches
routers maybe wireless access points and
don't forget about cabling as well
that's also part of the network. Now why
are these devices important? because
they are all actual points of entry
inside of our networks. So an attacker
that has physical access to your network
can open a wide variety of attacks or
pretty much all of them, you know,
exploits, perform man-in-the-middle,
denial of service, stealing data,
corrupting data, pretty much anything.
So before we even reach that point where
we have to think about security policies
and firewall rules and and how to match
traffic using IPS rules, the first thing
that we have to take care of is actual
physical security inside of our physical
network. And we are going to talk about
actual physical security controls here.
Don't forget about these either in in
real life or on the exam. And those
physical controls are nothing else than
the ones that you would probably expect
that you would use to protect anything
in the real in real life. You know,
locks, doors, fences, guards, even
lighting or or dogs that can protect any
kind of perimeter or any kind of area
that is supposed to be out of reach for
intruders. So, don't just think that you
have to rely on smart technologically
advanced firewall rules and and digital
security mechanisms to keep the bad guys
out. Sometimes a simple door or a proper
lock can also keep the bad guys outside
of your data center. Okay, then perhaps
you're not going to be using a guard dog
to protect your switch. How would that
look like? but it might be a useful
addition to the night guards that patrol
your data center premises, especially if
nobody else should be around at night.
And also, don't just think about a data
center. Don't forget about your
employees and their workstations that
become exposed during the night or
during uh outside work hours. Those are
still points of entry in your network
and those computers still hold
confidential data. So, these are the
physical controls that you should have
in place. Now of course don't forget
about the logical controls as well. So
that's where we actually talk about you
know mechanisms that make sure that you
have proper authentication and network
access and all the points of entry in
your network are digitally secured. Uh
this is where you'll find
implementations under the name of uh
network access control for example or
network access protection or protocols
like 802.1x that ensure that only
allowed devices or users can actually
connect to your network. Now, of course,
this assumes that the device or the user
already has physical access to your
network and you're already at the stage
where you have to decide whether to
allow that access further or not. And
then we have to focus on the virtual
realm as well because a lot of the
infrastructure that we're using nowadays
actually runs in a virtual environment,
not necessarily inside of a cloud, but
also in our own data center. Most data
centers nowadays are virtualized. So
pretty much any piece of software or
operating system runs as a virtual
machine or as a container. Now apart
from the introduction of the additional
virtualization layer or of the
hypervisor, most of the virtual
infrastructure, you might be surprised
to figure out that it is not as
different as you might expect from the
physical or traditional way of running
applications. We are going to be facing
pretty much the same networking
protocols. So you'll still find IPv4,
IPv6. We'll still use ARP and DHCP to
connect and communicate through a
network. We will still use layer 3
routes to navigate from one network to
the next and virtual switches. So most
of the protocols that we're used to from
the physical world are still going to be
used in the virtual world as well. We're
also going to find the same operating
systems because the virtualization
actually enables us to run multiple
operating systems on the same host on
the same machine. So we're still going
to be running the same Windows system,
the same Linux systems on different
hardware. This time virtualized from a
networking and also security
perspective. We're still going to be
using similar devices. So we'll be using
virtual switches and virtual routers, uh
virtual firewalls, virtual uh inspection
traffic inspection devices, VBN
endpoints. So pretty much anything that
we are used to having physically in a
data center is going to be found in a
virtual version in a virtualized data
center. But now it's not a physical
firewall anymore. is just a virtual
machine with virtual network interfaces
that most likely runs the exact same
firewall operating system as your
physical device from your data center,
but this time runs it just like any
other virtual machine right next to your
applications. Now, the security uh story
in the virtual environment isn't really
that short, nor does it really have a
happy ending because going from physical
to virtual, we are going to be facing a
couple more security risks. Now, just to
mention a couple of these, you have
attacks that are generically called VM
escape attacks. And the idea here is
that separate operating systems running
on the same hosts are supposed to be
completely isolated from each other.
They should not be able to even realize
the fact that they're running in a
virtualized environment. Not to mention
that they shouldn't be able to access
each other's, you know, files and
processes. A VM escape attack is a type
of attack or vulnerability that targets
a weakness in the implementation of the
hypervisor. Now the hypervisor is
nothing else than a a very simplified
operating system. Its only purpose is to
ensure isolation between the virtual
machines and to ensure that those
virtual machines have access to real
physical resources on the host that
they're running on. Now this hypervisor
of course is just a piece of software
like any other. It might have some bugs.
It might have some vulnerabilities which
if successfully exploited might allow a
virtual machine to actually escape its
confines and be able to access other
virtual machines, their processes, maybe
even the whatever their their virtual
CPUs are executing or even what files
they're storing on the same host, which
is dangerous from a number of
perspectives. First of all, if you're
running in your own data center, this
opens you to the risk of having one
application that gets compromised infect
the rest of your infrastructure in your
data center. So, this can be a way for
an attacker to pivot from one
compromised machine to the rest of your
infrastructure. Secondly, and a much
powerful implication is when you're
running these machines inside of a cloud
environment. Because inside of a cloud
such as uh Microsoft or Amazon or Oracle
or Google, most of the infrastructure is
shared. That is you are running a
virtual machine on a very powerful
server that also runs virtual machines
for 10, 20, 50 other customers. Now what
would happen if such an attack would be
possible and would allow just anybody to
access any other customer's data running
on the same cloud on the same host? That
would be very bad news for any cloud
business in the world. So remember VM
escape attacks at the moment they are
still considered a theoretical risk.
There haven't been so many examples of
VM escape attacks actually succeeding
but the risk is always out there. The
risk of a zeroday attack that exploits a
vulnerability that nobody else has
realized has been there for from the
very beginning. A second consideration
that you might want to take into account
is the fact that virtual machines just
like physical servers have to
communicate with each other. So you
might have two VMs that can talk to each
other, but they're both running on the
same host, the same physical server.
Well, they will most likely be
communicating over the internal switch.
So the traffic is not going to
physically leave that server. Now, what
if you have a bigger data center or just
more than one server and you have
virtual machines that need to
communicate from one rack to another,
from one server to another. Well, that
traffic is most likely going to pass
through the physical network where
you're going to find physical networking
devices where you will have the same
risks that you're facing in a physical
data center. So even if you are going
towards a fully virtualized platform or
environment that virtualization is still
going to run on physical hardware. So
never forget this. If you value the
traffic between your virtual machines
which is by the way is also called east
west traffic then make sure that you
secure that traffic whenever it leaves
your physical servers. Even if the other
server the destination virtual machine
is located just a few steps away. So be
careful with security in general in the
virtual environment. Not to mention that
attacks are much less visible inside of
a virtual environment because on some
situations attacks or exploits can
happen within the same host. You're not
even going to see that malicious traffic
traveling over your physical network.
Also, you might not be able to enforce
the same security policies using the
same devices that you had in your
physical network. You might have to
adapt to your new environment. Also, if
you're misconfiguring security in a
virtual environment, disasters can. So,
don't allow more virtual machines to
communicate than strictly necessary. And
even try to isolate different types of
machines on different hosts if possible.
Another interesting topic here is SDN,
that's softwaredefined networking. And
this is an interesting one because I
would have said maybe a couple of years
ago that this is a new concept. It's not
so new anymore. It has been widely
developed and implemented worldwide. It
hasn't exactly penetrated so much market
just yet. So you're not going to see at
every single step pure SDN networks
implemented in companies. And the need
for SDN was born starting from the
original method of managing and using
networking infrastructure. So up until
just a few years ago, most of networking
out there was just physical network
devices. We had switches, we had
routers, we had firewalls and we had
everything in one device. And by
everything I mean we had a management
inter interface to administer that
device. We had the uh the decisions, the
intelligence behind that device, the
operating system that dictates how to
manage traffic, how to filter traffic,
how to route it on one interface or the
next. And we also had the actual
physical traffic forwarding built in the
same box. So that's the way we've been
doing things. That's the the traditional
switch or the router that you can buy
even nowadays. Now SDN tries to change
this approach and it actually tries not
just to change it for the sake of
changing something but also because it's
trying to solve some important
management overhead issues and the risk
of misisconfigurations when network
infrastructure especially in large
companies becomes incredibly complex and
it also tries to address those issues in
virtual environments where you know
creating a VM a virtual switch a virtual
router doesn't cost cost you any money.
You don't have to buy anything and
install it in a rack. But that's also
one of the reasons why a virtual
infrastructure can quickly grow beyond
your control, can get up out of control.
This is also called VM sprawl, as in
let's say more or less official term
simply because it doesn't cost you
anything to spin up a new instance of a
virtual machine. Everybody starts doing
it and people start forgetting about
what those virtual machines should be
doing. uh they start forgetting about
what security policies they should be
applied to those VMs and so on. You
know, a virtual machine is much easier
to ignore than an actual big heavy
server that it's mounted in a in a rack
and its fans shout at you every single
time you pass by it. So with so many
physical networking devices and virtual
uh networking devices as well, SDN
attempts to abstract this network
implementation lets you focus on the big
picture while some intelligence inside
that SDN implementation takes care of
the nitty-gritty details of
reconfiguring each network device
whenever you want to make a change. So
it moves the decision- making from the
individual networking device from that
smart switch or that smart router that
we said we we used to have to a
centralized brain that is completely
separate from the rest of the
infrastructure, right? While the
networking device is there to simply
blindly accept and follow any commands
that the brain tells it to do. it just
implements them and makes sure that it
moves the packets from interface A to
interface B as fast as possible. So this
SDN model is actually going to look
something like this. So we're
introducing something called the control
plane or also called the SDN controller
sometimes. That's where the policy
decisions are made. That's the brain
that controls the entire softwaredefined
network. Then we also have the data
plane. That's going to be where the
individual physical devices are located.
That's going to be your actual physical
router, your physical switch. They don't
need any intelligence anymore. They
simply have to listen to the control
plane for any commands about routing
traffic, applying security policies,
inspecting traffic, reporting, and so
on. They're just concerned with moving
packets. That's it. And with third, we
have the management plane. This is going
to be the component that ensures that us
as administrators can monitor and check
the status of what's going on inside of
our softwaredefined network. That's also
going to be the interface that you use
to input commands. Commands that get
sent to the brain to the control plane
and eventually to the data plane where
the packets are actually going to be
influenced by your configuration
decisions. Now we said that SDN tries to
keep these these ideas these concepts
completely separate but it kind of looks
more complicated right now it used to be
so easy have everything on one switch
just connect that switch you know create
a policy create an access list and bam
you just you just influence the traffic
flow and that's it what more do you need
well as we said SDN tries to address
some management issues and also any kind
of issues that occur at in large scale
environments So from a management
perspective, think about the fact that
you want to create a new VLAN on 100
switches. Now this can be done in just a
couple of clicks or just a couple of
commands onto the management plane which
talks to the brain, the control plane,
and makes sure that the proper
instructions are generated for each of
those 100 switches and they're all
applied at the same time. So you have no
typos, you have consistency, and you
have a very consistent high-level
overview of whatever is happening inside
of your network. So no more human error.
Consequently, if something bad happens
inside of your network, you can either
be instantly notified in your management
interface or you can even configure the
brain, the control plane to magically
reconfigure the network around that
failed segment or that failed device.
Because again the control plane has a
highle overview of everything that's
happening in your network which opens us
to an additional benefit which is
automation or orchestration having all
the intelligence all the routing
policies the routing protocols the uh
security policies anything that normally
would be defined on on a single device.
Having all this information in one
centralized place allows us to
reconfigure the network almost
instantly. So whenever we need to make
some changes, maybe temporarily reroute
traffic or insert a new device in the
network, a new virtual device that
performs, I don't know, maybe IPS
traffic inspection or any kind of of
additional virtual hardware. We can do
this automatically. We can reconfigure
the entire network in just a few
commands. And we can also teach that
centralized brain of the network to heal
itself whenever it locates an issue
within the network. Maybe route traffic
around a failed endpoint or maybe bring
up a secondary firewall which is in
standby in an active passive um high
availability pair when the first one
ceizes to function or has a very high
CPU usage. So we're not just moving the
traditional intelligence from our
networking devices onto this control
brain, but we're actually bringing a on
top of it more control, more
intelligence, more overview and
automation on top of everything. And
this is great news for admins. And by
the way, everything that you're building
in any cloud environment, be it Amazon,
Google, Oracle, whatever it is, that's
going to be software defined. and the
networking that's running within that
cloud environment. It doesn't matter if
you're instantiating a Cisco firepower
next generation firewall or a or a foret
firewall or a Nexus switch. Any kind of
device that you're creating inside of
that cloud environment is going to be a
virtual device and the networking around
it is going to be software defined
networking. How else would you think
that you would be able to create an
entire infrastructure in a cloud
environment in just a few clicks? You
simply cannot reconfigure hardware the
way you reconfigure software. Now from a
security perspective, SDN can be
extremely beneficial because it greatly
reduces the risk of human error and also
provides you with a better insight into
any policies, any traffic flows that
might be happening in your network and
that control plane, right? That's that's
that's very useful for security
intelligence. But don't forget one thing
that brain that centralized brain is
just another application that is running
on your network and that is controlling
your entire network and that application
can just as easily be compromised by an
attacker. So win some lose some or
better said risk some. And just one
mention here uh with SDN we have we said
that we have this management application
that communicates with the SDN control
that is the brain of the network and
this in turn is going to communicate
with the actual physical devices that
listen to commands coming from the SDN
controller. Now all this communication
is usually done through APIs,
application programming interfaces. And
there are two keywords here that you
should remember at least for the exam.
And that is the communication between
the management application and the
controller is traditionally called the
northbound API. And between the
controller and the actual physical
devices, that's going to be called the
southbound API. Now another term that
you will encounter very often especially
when you're interacting with public
cloud providers is a term of VPC virtual
private cloud. Now normally this is
considered to be a kind of a network a
virtual network within that cloud
environment but in reality is more like
a logical compartment of resources. It
just happens that resources are very
well compartmentalized
by using separate networks. Especially
because most of the infrastructure that
we're creating, we're deploying in a
cloud environment is somehow networking
oriented. You're most likely not going
to be creating many resources in a cloud
environment that are not directly or
indirectly connected to a network. Now
you are going to find these kind of
cloud networks uh named in a number of
ways depending on their vendors. So for
example, Microsoft Azure here calls them
virtual networks or V-NETs. On the other
hand, AWS calls them VPCs, virtual
private clouds. You can see all the
networking options in here. Oracle cloud
or OCI also calls them VCN.
That's virtual cloud network. Again,
networking configuration right here, but
basically just used to separate or keep
resources separate. And finally, Google
Cloud Platform or Google Cloud mentions
them as VPC networks. Now, inside of an
actual VPC or virtual network, besides
the actual uh virtual machines or
entities that are running or connected
to it, you're going to find things that
you might recognize from the physical
world, such as subnets, uh route tables,
uh gateways that connect you to the
internet, uh DHCP options, public IP
addresses, you can perform NAT for
private servers, uh security, of course,
using ACL and firewall rules, DNS rules,
VIP VPN endpoints, and so on and so
forth. So, you're going to be focusing
on a lot of the traditional networking
knowledge and networking concepts that
you've preferably remembered from the uh
physical world. And speaking about VPNs,
now that's another way to design your
network. That's another component of a
network design. You're probably nothing
new here. Not telling you anything new.
Uh the concept of a VPN, it's widely
spread. I'm sure everybody has used one
at some point in life up until now. Uh
basically it's about a secure tunnel
through a public infrastructure. So a
way to remotely access some resources
from a remote location and gain access
to those resources just like you would
normally have access if you were in the
same network as your your destination.
So what do we use VPNs for? So first of
all for remote connectivity. If you want
to access some private server from your
company or from your home can create a
VPN endpoint, connect to that VPN
endpoint and if everything you
configured correctly, your computer is
going to behave just as if it were
locally connected to the same network as
your remote resource. So that's remote
connectivity. Now secondly we have
security
or most of the time we have security and
that is because if you think about a VPN
most people are going to think about the
fact that the VPN is encrypted but by
its definition a VPN doesn't assume any
type of data encryption. A VPN is just
like the name says it's a virtual
private network. So it basically takes
care of just the isolation part of that
networking access and that's it. It
doesn't say anything about security in
there. And keep this in mind especially
for the exam as well because CompTIA
likes to catch you with these these
small caveats. So so a VPN is by
definition not necessarily secure. It
can be of course and most VPNs out there
are secured but it's not part of its
default nature. Now, of course, if we
think of about a VPN as being an an
encrypted tunnel, a secure tunnel, that
means we are protecting whatever data is
being sent through that tunnel. But you
have to still keep in mind the fact that
opening yourself up to VPN connections
from the outside is basically nothing
else than increasing your attack
surface. the VPN endpoint. If it has to
be accessible from the internet, from
any location out there, then it's also
accessible for attackers out there, too.
So, make sure that you properly
authenticate users and devices when they
attempt a VPN connection inside of your
company. You can even go as far as
implementing two-factor authentication
or multifactor authentication. Most VPN
clients nowadays support this anyway,
and you should be using this feature. Or
you can go even further and implementing
some clients that also perform some
client posture checks before
authentication. That is the client also
acts as a small security agent on the
device that is trying to connect and
scans that device before it attempts
connection for let's say updates on the
operating system security patches. uh
maybe performing even an antivirus or
anti-malware scan on that host before
allowing it to connect to the internal
network. This is more of a enterprise
level solution, but you will find this
implemented in real life quite often. A
very simple check you could be
performing is the fact that the device
owns a certificate signed by the
certification authority of your company.
So if it doesn't have that certificate
and it's not recognized then it's not a
company device and you're not allowed to
use that VPN connection. One final topic
here on our discussion about network
architecture is a recently introduced
concept in cloud environments and that
is serverless architecture or function
as a service. Now if you look inside the
AWS console you can see here under the
lambda service that it says run code
without thinking about servers. Now, how
nice does this sound? Now, Lambda, it's
actually a cloud computing service that
is dedicated to running code, pure
application code or dedicated functions
in an application without exposing any
type of infrastructure. So, there is
some infrastructure in there. Of course,
there are some computing entities, some
virtual networks that run your code. You
just don't see it. So, this kind of
requires a completely different
approach, especially from a security
standpoint. You have to treat this
function as a service functionality like
a black box. You don't know what's in
there. You cannot secure the insides of
that black box. Um so make sure that you
can protect whatever is under your
control. That is the inputs and the
outputs that those functions accept and
produce respectively. Now if you want to
play with this, give it a try with AWS
Lambda. You can also access it in a free
account. Uh for Azure, you're going to
find it under Azure functions or
function applications. And on Google
Cloud, it's going to be called cloud
functions under the serverless services
category. Now, we could not possibly
talk about network architecture without
talking about network segmentation. What
is network segmentation? Well, keeping
things apart, right? That's what
segmentation means. Why do we do this?
Why do we want to segment a nicely
working network? Why do we want to cut
it in pieces? Well, any good networking
admin would tell you that the first
reason behind network segmentation is
management and performance. Um, in other
words, having all your networking
devices, all your hosts, all your
servers into one huge network segment
where everybody can talk to each other
is going to create a very sluggish
network because all these hosts, all
these servers can talk to each other and
all this entire environment here is
sometimes called a broadcast domain.
That's because any kind of broadcast
communication and we rely on broadcasts
from the very first packet that we send
between two hosts from the very first
ARP packet address resolution protocol
we're going to rely on those broadcast.
Now if you have hundreds or thousands of
hosts in any single network segment here
the broadcast traffic is going to become
huge unmanageable and your network is
going to slow down. and not to mention
the actual hosts themselves because
they're still going to be expanding CPU
cycles processing useless broadcast
traffic. So from a management and
performance perspective, we're going to
try to separate this environment into
more manageable smaller networks,
isolated networks. And there's also a
security benefit. If one of these hosted
hosts, let's say this one here, gets
compromised by an attacker, chances are
it's going to be much more difficult for
the malware or for the attacker to
bypass this network edge and jump into a
different network. It's most likely
going to infect all the other hosts and
the same network and you will be able to
at least contain that effect that attack
to a single network segment. Okay. So,
how do we do this? Now the most basic
type of network segmentation is called
air gapping. Now air gapping is the
simplest type of network segmentation
because it doesn't involve the network
at all. So with air gapping you're
basically isolating completely
disconnecting a host or a network
segment from the rest of the network. So
we're not talking about firewall
policies here. We're not talking about
you know traffic inspection policies
that allow or deny your traffic. No, no.
We're basically talking about unplugging
the network cable. Wait, whose cable is
this?
And you might think that this is stupid,
but it's also very secure. If you don't
connect to any kind of network, there
are no potential attackers or no
potential exploits that you can fall
victim to that come through a network.
Now, as you can guess, this becomes
really tough to manage because if you
don't have even management access in
there, you're going to have to
physically connect to that device or to
that network in order to manage it to
perform some changes or to interact with
it. So, there are some alternative
solutions that have been developed. For
example, data dodes, which are physical
devices that make sure that no kind of
traffic is allowed to pass in one
specific direction. And that's because
there are no internal circuits between
those two ports. Some traffic might be
allowed in the other direction, for
example, to allow your isolated devices
to perform updates and download some
patches from the internet, but that's
it. All the traffic is proxied and there
is no physical connection between the
input and output ports of a data diode.
Where would you use this? As you can
probably guess, you're thinking about,
you know, military solutions here. uh
power plants, perhaps industrial
solutions, any kind of network that
relies on realtime operating systems
that is supposed to have no outside
interference or any kind of system that
wasn't designed or is not able to
implement security. Thus, we try to
isolate it from any potential danger.
And another let's say a bit unexpected
use of air gapping is for protecting
certificate authority private keys. Now
as you probably know in a PKI in a
public key infrastructure we rely on a
certification authority that is just a
server right that validates that
generates any other certificates that
are generated by it and those
certificates are considered to be valid
because they are signed with the private
key of that certification authority just
like a a stamp or an identification card
that is generated by your state
authority. That's exactly the same trust
that we have in those certification
authority. Now this means that the
private key of that CA is something that
must never be compromised. Otherwise if
the private key is compromised all the
certificates ever generated by that CA
are going to be revoked or going to be
considered insecure.
That's one of the situations where the
private key can be stored on a separate
machine completely airgapped isolated
from any other type of network because
we don't want to risk anybody reaching
that machine compromising it and
potentially compromising that private
key as well. Then we have segmentation
performed by networking devices and we
have segmentation at layer two performed
by switches using VLANs or segmentation
at layer three performed by routers
using separate routed interfaces or
separate networks. Now again this is not
a networking training here so I'm not
going to dwell too much on this but just
to keep the story short a VLAN as the
name says a virtual LAN is a logical
construct inside of a switch that allows
all the hosts within the same VLAN to
talk to each other. Now hosts in two
different VLANs are not allowed by
default to talk to each other because
they're considered to be in separate
networks. Now two separate networks can
be connected either by using a layer
three switch which has routing
functionality or an actual router.
That's the purpose of the router
interconnecting different networks. Now
there's no point in separating two
networks and then making them talk to
each other back again. Right? So the
idea behind this type of network
segmentation using VLANs or separate
networks is that when we are actually
routing from one network to the next, we
also have the possibility of
implementing some security policies that
is actually specifying I want this type
of traffic to pass and I want this type
of traffic to be denied which is
basically somewhat similar to the
behavior of a firewall. The firewall is
nothing else than a router that connects
different networks and can implement a
bit more advanced security policies. We
can look at the IP packets. We can look
at the source and destination. We
perhaps can look at layer 4 transport
layer. We can look at TCP UDP ports or
ICMP code or whatnot. Or we can even if
we are using a so-called marketing name
next generation firewall, we can also
use at layer 7 or an application layer
gateway. We can look at the layer 7.
That's the application content within
our networking traffic. So for example,
we can have a simple network policy that
says I want to allow web traffic to this
specific destination. That's going to be
a layer 4 rule because it's going to be
built based on the layer 3 destination
and the layer 4 port number. Or we can
have a smarter security rule that says I
only want to allow
Facebook traffic but not Facebook chat
or Messenger chat. Right? That's going
to be a layer 7 rule that requires you
to have some sort of a firewall that is
able to understand look inside that that
traffic that web traffic because it all
looks like web traffic and figure out
well this is this is a Facebook image
this is a Facebook post this is Facebook
chat and I have to deny it. Then we have
a specialized zone here called a DMZ.
Now, the DMZ, the demilitarized zone, is
a network segment where you're supposed
to place your publicly facing servers
that belong to your local network. All
right? So, you have your local network
and you have the internet. Of course,
they are connected. And let's say you
want to expose a website. You want to
host your own company website. Now one
way of doing this is to just host that
website within your local network and
make sure that you allow traffic from
the internet directly to that uh website
host. Now this is probably not going to
be desirable because you will be
allowing internet traffic and
potentially malicious traffic to reach
the internal network of your company. So
a better decision for this would be to
create an additional zone which is going
to be a completely separate networking
segment from your local network and
that's going to be called a DMZ a
demilitarized zone. Now this DMZ here of
course is also going to be accessible
from the local network and from the
internet. But most likely this junction
here in the middle is going to happen
inside of a dedicated box which is most
likely going to be a firewall. Now this
dedicated firewall box here is going to
have an interface that is pointing to
the internet, another interface that is
connected to your local network and
another interface that connects the DMZ.
Now the purpose for keeping this
interface separate is to actually be
able to implement different security
policies between all these three zones,
the local network, the DMZ and the
internet. So for example, one type of
security policy that you might encounter
here would be allow all traffic from the
internet to go to the DMZ because that's
where we host our public servers. All
right. Now, on the other hand, of
course, traffic coming from the internet
and heading to our local network is
going to be denied by default because
that's exactly what we don't want. We
want to protect the local network from
outside traffic. That's why we took the
DMZ outside. So, we're going to deny
this. And of course, traffic from the
local network heading to the DMZ is most
likely not going to be allowed because
the DMZ is considered to be an insecure
zone. It is exposed to the outside. It
is the first one that is going to be
compromised and if an attack succeeds.
So, we're going to deny this kind of
traffic here as well. Now, of course, if
you're denying traffic from the local
network to the DMZ, you're going to run
into some management issues. So, most
likely there will be some type of
traffic allowed here. management traffic
going through a proxy, going through a
jump box or a or a dedicated host solely
for management purposes because you will
need at some point to you know to
configure the web servers to update them
to update the content on your website
and such. So you will have some limited
access from the local network to the DMZ
but for no reason you shall allow your
internal users to talk to the DMZ just
like they would be in the same network.
And well speaking about things that run
inside of a DMZ, we also have to
introduce the concept of a jumpbox. Now
the jump box here is a dedicated
machine. It can be physical, it can be
virtual that is created so that everyone
is supposed to connect to it. everyone
has to go through it in order to access
a different part of the network or some
isolated network segment or some other
resources usually placed in the DMZ as
it needs to be accessible from the
outside or at least through a VPN. And
you will find this design in a lot of
companies where the uh the VPN server
for example is located somewhere within
the the DMZ zone simply because it needs
to be accessible from the internet right
from by outside users that need to
connect to that to that VPN endpoint.
And the host that is running this VPN
endpoint is sometimes called a bastion
host or a jumpbox. Yeah. Well, the
purpose of this this jump box is to
reduce the attack surface while also,
you know, allowing some increased
security authentication mechanisms,
especially in the case of VPN servers,
for example. So, you can implement some
better checks onto the the clients that
are trying to connect your network. Now,
the terms of bastion host and jumpbox
are often used interchangeably. So they
mean the same thing and are frequently
found in cloud environments where you
have a an entire infrastructure
instantiated in some cloud provider and
you don't want to expose that entire
infrastructure to the outside world to
the internet. So you just create a
bastion host or a jump box like this and
everybody who wants to manage that
infrastructure or connect to it has to
connect to the jump box first and then
will jump from that box to the rest of
the devices in your cloud environment.
Okay, so that's it for today. I will try
to keep these episodes as short as
possible from now on because 1 hour is a
bit too long for anybody's attention
span. So for the exam, make sure you
remember uh that we talked about
physical and virtual networks. We also
talked about SDN. Make sure you able to
explain what's happening inside of the
SDN and the basic components that make
up an SDN. Uh then we talked about uh
cloud networks, VPCs, VCNS and such. uh
VPNs as well, virtual private networks.
Make sure you don't confuse the acronyms
here. And remember, we also talked about
network segmentation. Layer 2
segmentations using switches and VLANs.
Layer three segmentations using networks
and routers. Uh airgapped networks,
DMZs. Make sure we remember the purpose
behind a DMZ, why we have it in there,
especially from a security perspective,
and the concept of a jump box or a
bastion host. That's it for today. Thank
you so much for watching. I hope you
found this useful, informative, and fun.
Make sure you like and subscribe if you
did and see you next time when we will
be talking about what is this uh network
traffic packet and protocol analyzers.
All right, so we're still in the
networking area next time as well. Thank
you so much. See you next time.
[Music]
[Music]