[Music]
Hi everyone. Today we're going to talk
about firewalls. So firewalls, remember
those devices in movies that hackers
always hack and crack and bypass? Now
they have to be some pretty useless
devices if they can be bypassed so
easily, right? So why do we have them in
the first place? Well, let's see. So
what is a firewall? Now contrary to
popular belief, a firewall is not a
device that is impenetrable, right? We
don't use firewalls to to block all
traffic. If you want to block all
traffic, this is what you need. A
disconnected network cable. This is what
blocks all traffic, not firewalls.
So a firewall is a is a network security
device, right? that looks at the
incoming and the outgoing traffic going
to or from your network and decides
whether to allow that traffic or to
block specific traffic based on some
predefined set of security rules. Now,
how how complex those security rules can
be or how carefully or how deep can the
firewall actually look inside that
traffic and make its decisions. This
depends on various features of the
actual firewall device itself. And
firewalls have evolved a lot over time.
Now they they started as dumb very basic
packet filtering devices. And nowadays
they've evolved into something
absolutely huge. Not huge as in size,
but huge as in the number of features,
the number of uh security techniques and
methodologies that they implement to
secure your network. Now, they've
actually gone so far nowadays that
vendors are advertising their own
firewalls as all-in-one security devices
with all the security features into one
single box or one single virtual
machine. But we're getting ahead of
ourselves. So, let's go back to the
basics and see exactly what types of
firewall we can encounter.
Now, the first and the most basic
firewall type is called stateless. Okay,
so it apparently doesn't have a state.
What does that mean? So for this I'm
going to draw an extremely ugly firewall
here in the middle assuming that it
connects two networks. So we're going to
have a local area network on the left
hand side and the internet on the right
hand side. So that's the worldwide web.
And of course we assume that we do have
two connections. One towards the land
side and one towards the internet. Now
let's also assume that we have two hosts
that want to communicate. So on the LAN
side we have a host here which I'm going
to call PC1. And on the internet side,
we have another host.
Let's say that this one is a public
website. And we're going to call this S1
right from server one. Now, assuming
that these two entities want to
communicate, they're going to have to go
through the firewall. So PC1 first is
going to send a request and then server
one is going to respond with a reply.
Now, the firewall is only going to
permit the traffic if it has a valid
rule for that specific type of traffic.
So, in order for our request to go
through the firewall, we would probably
need a rule that looks like this. Permit
all the traffic that you see coming from
PC1 and heading over to server one. All
right, this rule would allow the request
to go through the firewall. Now, what
about the reply? Similarly for the reply
we would probably configure another rule
on the firewall that says permit all the
traffic coming from server one and going
back to PC1 right all these two rules
here would be configured right on this
firewall box now do you see a problem
here this configuration here this rule
configuration would allow our PC1 to
communicate with server one but what if
other people inside of our LAN want to
communicate with that server one Well,
we could create a rule for each and
every host in this in this LAN, but it
would be much easier to just say
something like this. That is to permit
all the traffic coming from our entire
LAN going to server one and then permit
the return traffic from server one to
anybody who might have initiated that
connection from within the LAN. Does
this work? Well, it kind of works. Yeah,
pretty good. But what if we have more
than one server that we want to access?
We have the entire internet that we want
to access. tons of websites and web
destinations and and remote servers that
we can connect to. How would these rules
look like? Well, we could probably start
by doing something like this like permit
all the traffic coming from our LAN and
that is heading towards the entire
internet which again it is a valid rule
right we would expect everybody in a
local network to be able to access the
internet. Now what about the return
traffic? How would that rule look like?
It would look something like this.
Permit all the traffic coming from the
internet heading to our land.
Does it work? Yes, it works. Do you see
a problem with this? We've basically
cancelled the entire firewall, right?
We're allowing all the traffic to flow
through the firewall directly unimpeded
any kind of connections in either way.
So why do we have the firewall in there?
So you can see that this approach where
we actually need a separate rule for
each type of connection that we want to
allow through that firewall
is not going to work with a stateless
firewall. We need the firewall to be
able to track the connections that are
being initiated from the LAN and to
dynamically know how to allow those
responses back to our local network but
nothing else. So, if I'm just a regular
user, I'm Andrew, right, in my home
network, and I want to send a request to
access Facebook. Now, the request is
going to go through the firewall, of
course, because I do need a rule to
allow me to access the internet. But I
need the firewall to be smart enough to
look at that request and figure out that
it is supposed to allow the return
traffic for that request and only for
that request. I'm not going to allow the
entire internet to connect back to my
local network, back to my host, but I
will allow whatever traffic I have
requested, nothing more. Now, this
behavior is actually the behavior of a
stateful firewall. It's called stateful
because it remembers this state
knowledge. It remembers the connections
initiated from the inside of our LAN
here. looks at this connection right
here, sees who initiated it, sees that's
it's it's PC4, sees that it is aimed for
server one, and it doesn't just look at
the source IP address and the
destination IP address, but it's al it
also looks at the source port number and
the destination port number. Now, the
source port number here would be
something random like, I don't know,
maybe 35,128,
but the destination here would probably
be something like port 80. So a rule
that we would configure on our own as
admins on this firewall would probably
look something like this. Permit all the
traffic from our local network going to
the internet. So nothing new so far. But
here's the catch. We only need to
configure this single rule right here
because when the firewall sees a
connection being initiated from the LAN
from a PC inside of the LAN to any
destination on the internet, it is also
going to automatically create a rule for
the return traffic to allow the return
traffic. So we would probably see a rule
that looks kind of like this. So the
firewall is automatically going to
permit all the traffic coming from
server one from port 80. That's the web
server port going back to PC1 inside of
our local network on port 35,000
whatever port was chosen when that
connection was initiated. And the
stateful firewall is smart enough to
allow us to configure this rule on the
inside interface. the one pointing to
what LAN and the dynamic rule
automatically created by the firewall is
going to be automatically applied to
this outside interface where we expect
the return traffic to come back to us.
Now the advantage of this is of course
you only need to specify the rules that
allow the traffic to go out from your
network. The return traffic is going to
be automatically determined and allowed
and permitted by the firewall. That is
state knowledge. So, the ability of the
firewall to look at the state of the
connection, figure out now this has been
a request. This is a host in inside of
the local network attempting to
communicate to someone on the outside.
I'm expecting a reply from that uh
remote location. So, I'm going to
automatically create a rule that allows
that inbound traffic. Now, how does the
firewall know that there's supposed to
be a reply coming back or how long is it
going to allow this this dynamic rule
here to live on the outside interface?
Well, the idea behind this behavior is
actually related to the fact that the
firewall not only looks at the first
packet, but also looks at the layer 4
information inside of that traffic. So,
looks at the TCP or UDP type of traffic.
Now, for a connection to behave just
like we described it here, we're
basically going to talk about TCP
connections, right? And as you probably
know, the TCP connection is initiated by
a three-way handshake. Now, which means
that we're going to have a sin packet to
open the connection, a sin act packet
back to open the connection from the
server side, and to confirm the
connection from the client side. So, I
have a synchronization and
acknowledgement in the same packet and
then back an acknowledgement from the
client. Now the stateful connection
inside of the firewall is actually
created the moment the firewall detects
this send packet coming from the
internal network. So for how long is the
return rule going to live? How long is
the firewall going to keep it in there
and allow traffic from the outside?
Well, for as long as this connection
here is still valid. That is as long as
traffic is being transferred. So,
there's going to be an internal timeout
in there. If the connection simply dies
and no further packets are transferred
for 5, 10, or 15 minutes, then the
firewall is going to tear down the rule
that allows the return traffic because
it's not used anymore, or until either a
FIN message is detected,
which indicates that one of the parties
wants to end that connection, or until a
TCP reset is detected. That's when you
know you're not behaving properly and uh
the other party wants to forcefully
terminate that connection and refuse any
further communication with you. So the
firewall is going to keep that dynamic
stateful inbound rule up and running
until either the connection is
gracefully terminated, forcefully
terminated, or simply times out due to
inactivity. Now, one thing to remember
is that you won't be finding any
stateless firewalls anymore in the real
life. They are a thing of the past, but
do remember how they work for the exam
and also remember that sometimes they
are called packet filtering firewalls
because that's exactly what they do.
They they have no knowledge about the
connection, the state of the connection.
They only look at individual packets and
if you want to allow individual packets,
you will need dedicated rules for each
direction and for each type of packet
that is supposed to pass through that
stateless firewall. Now, on the other
hand, stateful firewalls are the ones
that you will find pretty much
everywhere. And yes, even the firewall
that is built into your home router, no
matter how cheap, is still going to be a
fully stateful firewall. Now, another
type of firewall, so to say, it's called
UTM, which stands for unified threat
management. And I don't completely agree
with the fact that this is a completely
different type of firewall even though
CompTIA says so because it is actually
more of a marketing term rather than a
technology. Basically it's a combination
of the stateful firewall functions that
we've already seen and some additional
functionality security functionality on
top of that. uh things like IPS, traffic
inspection, intrusion prevention or
antivirus, malware scanning, uh URL
filtering, filtering traffic based on
the reputation or the actual URL of the
site that you are about to access from a
browser. And we could go even further.
Uh some UTM boxes also provide anti-PAM
functionality and even DLP
functionality, data loss prevention. uh
which basically means that it is able to
inspect the traffic up to the actual
content the application layer and figure
out what type of files are being
transferred over a multitude of
protocols and then of course apply some
policies and some decisions to deny or
allow that file transfer. And actually
if you buy a firewall nowadays, you will
definitely get a combination of these
services here listed on the on the
blackboard because nobody creates pure
firewalls any longer. We have to to make
our security posture uh stronger,
smarter, that is adding additional
security functionality and additional
services to our traditional rulebased
firewall functionality. Another one that
CompTIA considers to be a dedicated type
of firewall is a proxy firewall. Again,
not exactly found in today's networks as
a dedicated device uh used solely for
the purpose of proxying web connections
for example, but it is going to be
implemented as an additional
functionality onto the firewall or onto
the UTM box uh for specific
applications. And a proxy actually works
kind of like a man in the middle for all
the connections that go through it. So
it's going to terminate the connection
on the firewall box with the proxy
functionality and then it's going to
initiate an additional connection from
the firewall to our internet destination
on behalf of the internal client or PC4
here on the left. Now this uh connection
breakage that happens here in the middle
actually allows the firewall to peek
inside of the traffic uh inspect what is
going on in there even sanitize the
contents of that connection maybe look
for abnormal protocol usage uh which is
also a great way of um detecting attacks
before they they happen. Now the return
traffic connection is of course also
going to be proxied on the same box. So
the connection is going to be broken
again when it comes back to the uh to
the original requester. Uh but this time
we can also implement some additional
services like of course inspecting what
content is being returned from the
internet and also we can provide some
caching services like the uh the proxy
can actually uh hold in a limited amount
of memory the most frequently accessed
content uh that your your network is
usually requesting from the internet and
they can uh serve that content directly
from the cache without going to the
internet and requesting that resource
every single time. And of course, this
is going to help users get a much better
experience. Lower latency, higher speeds
when accessing frequently as accessed
content. Finally, the last firewall
type, and unfortunately, this one is
also a marketing term. It's called NGFW.
That's next generation firewall. As far
as the terminology is involved, I'm
really curious what's going to happen
with uh this term when the next next
generation is going to emerge.
Anyway, uh next generation firewalls
combine uh stateful filtering like the
stateful firewalls that we've been
discussing with application level
security. So they have the ability to
look inside the traffic, look inside the
packets at the application layer.
they're actually able to determine the
actual content of the HTTP request or
the contents of the of the files that
are returned from the from the web
server, the actual operations performed
on an FTP server for example or the
domains that we are requesting using uh
using DNS. So next generation firewalls
are application aare. So for example,
you could use such a such a next
generation firewall to allow access to
the internet or to Facebook but at the
same time deny access to Facebook chat
to messenger Facebook Messenger or to
Facebook games. So we you do get this
granularity in in your decisions in your
policies so that you can exactly specify
what type of application traffic you
want to allow not just uh which uh
source and destinations can communicate
on or on which ports. Now they also have
advanced mechanisms to fight APS for
example and uh some might also rely on
machine learning and uh you can also
augment the intelligence of a next
generation firewall and most of them
actually do this by accessing online
reputation feeds. So at any given point
in time whenever you're accessing the
internet, you're trying to access a
website or download some content, the
firewall is going to check the
reputation of that location of that of
that web page actually or even of the
elements in the web page down to the
actual hyperlinks in the HTML code and
check whether the reputation of the site
is going to indicate that there might be
malicious content in there or if it's uh
safe to access. And in real life, the
differences between uh all these types
of firewalls are not so obvious anymore.
Well, apart from the stateless one
perhaps. Most firewalls that you can buy
nowadays will be a combination of next
generation firewall which with
application awareness and UTM with
features such as proxying or uh traffic
inspection uh either available as an
option as a pay subscription or enabled
by default. Okay. So how should we use a
firewall? Well, while we have a lot of
advanced threats nowadays and we we
cannot just focus solely on perimeter
security, we cannot ignore it completely
either. So it actually matters where do
you place your firewall. So in a lot of
firewall designs out there, you will
find about three zones. First off, you
have your internal zone. That is your
local network, the highest security
zone. Secondly, we have the outside or
the external zone, and that's in most
cases going to be the internet. That's
the place where you can expect nasty
things to come knocking at your door.
And finally, we might have something
called the DMZ. That's the demilitarized
zone connected to the same firewall.
Now, the DMZ, it's it still belongs to
you. is still your own network, but it's
dedicated to those services that are
exposed to the outside world, to the
internet. Things that you want people
from the internet to be able to reach.
Things like your web server that is
hosting your company website. Uh your
email servers so that you can, you know,
send and receive emails. Uh the DNS
servers so that people can reach your
web or email servers. Uh VPN endpoints
so that your employees can connect
remotely back to your your home company.
So all these publicly accessible and
publicly available services will most
likely be placed inside of the DMZ.
And the DMZ is a special area because
normally you would not allow any access
from the outside zone, the external zone
to the internal one. So the DMZ was
introduced to kind of allow admins to
define custom security rules that allow
some limited external access to just
some servers, a subset of servers while
still protecting your internal network.
And there are two major designs in which
you will find the DMZ implemented. The
first example is the one that you see
here on the screen with the DMZ as a
dedicated interface on the same firewall
that acts as the barrier between your
internal and your external networks. And
there is actually a second type of
design that uses two different firewalls
of course connected to each other. But
the DMZ in this case is located right
between them. So this network segment
right here, this one is the actual DMZ.
Now you might be thinking, well this is
inefficient. I actually need two
firewall boxes to get the exact same
kind of behavior. Well, not exactly. You
don't actually need two firewall boxes
because in real life, this kind of
deployment is most likely going to be
implemented as a single device. So this
one right here is the physical firewall
while these two smaller firewalls that
you see inside of it are just virtual
contexts or virtual domains or in other
words virtualized instances of the same
firewall software both running on the
same box. So just like virtual machines,
they actually are running as virtual
machines or as containers. You can
actually have multiple firewall
instances running on the same box, each
of them behaving completely
independently. You can actually dedicate
firewall instances to specific services.
Like I want this uh this instance right
here to only manage uh VPN services,
right? I want this one right here to
only manage I don't know maybe IPS or or
policy routing for the DMZ. So you can
actually multiply your firewalls by just
instantiating additional virtual
versions of the same firewall software.
Now most enterprise firewalls support
this feature. Sometimes you'll have to
pay for it extra, but in any case, this
type of design is doable by leveraging
multiple firewall instances.
Now let's talk about firewall rules for
just a minute. Now, firewall rules are
the actual pieces of information that
the firewall uses in order to decide
which type of traffic to allow and which
type of traffic to deny. So, these are
most likely going to be configured by
you, the admin. Now, the firewall rules
are often called ACL's. ACL stands for
access control list and it's exactly
what the name says. And the ACL is
actually just a list of entries while
each entry describes
a type of traffic and an action to take
when the firewall detects that type of
traffic. Now, how does an access list
actually detect that traffic? How does
it match on a specific type of traffic?
Now, we have a number of ways of doing
this. The most basic one would be by IP
address. A basic principle, right? In
any firewall, you might want to filter
for specific subnets, specific VLANs,
specific internet destinations by IP
addresses. And you can also use this
type of IP address based filtering to
filter illegitimate IP addresses. Now,
what is an illegitimate IP address?
Well, for example, uh let's think,
should we be receiving private IP
address source traffic from the
internet? Most definitely no. Should we
be receiving multiccast traffic if we
know that there is no multiccast running
inside of our network? No, we should
not. Uh should we be receiving traffic
from our own loop back on a physical
network interface? Again, no. Now, all
these uh IP addresses are sometimes used
in uh attacks that rely on IP address
spoofing. So at a bare minimum, you
should at least filter against these
type of illegitimate IP addresses, which
by the way are called boons. And there's
an actual best practice for filtering
this type of IP addresses. And that is
called boon filtering. I'm going to
leave this link here in the video
description to read more about it. But
basically, it covers just the type of IP
addresses that we've just talked about.
You can also use access list to filter
by protocol. Basically, you're denying
traffic from the outside for protocols
that should only be found in your
internal network. For example, why would
you be receiving uh DHCP traffic from
the internet or I don't know spanning
tree protocol traffic or SMB traffic for
file sharing? Depending on the uh
inspection ability of your firewalls and
how the access lists are structured, you
can also use them to filter by network
application. This is also going to be a
type of traffic filtering but but
filtering by applications means that the
firewall itself has some application
level visibility. So it is able to
identify multiple applications for
example running on the same protocol or
on the same port. Finally, some access
lists also have additional capabilities
for uh filtering for specific types of
protocol fields uh like flags, TCP flags
or fragmented IP packets. These are
important because they can also be part
of exploits or network grades attacks.
So we mentioned that after an ACL entry
matches a specific type of traffic, it's
going to take one action and these
actions can be as follows. First we have
the accept action. Just let the traffic
pass, forward it to rer the routing
engine because firewalls usually have
some routing functionality in them as
well and let the packet go on its merry
way to the final destination.
Second one is to reject. This means
blocking traffic and then informing the
source of that traffic that its packets
have been blocked. Usually this is done
by sending a TCP reset response or an
ICMP port or protocol unreachable
message. Now this seems elegant and well
educated for a network application. But
this right here is just free information
for an attacker. You you're basically
telling the attacker that there is
somebody in there enforcing security
that there is a security policy that
they've encountered.
Finally, we have the drop action. This
means just ignore the traffic. Don't do
anything. This makes hacking a bit more
difficult because port scans are not
going to return so much information. Of
course, if you are not the attacker and
you're just trying to troubleshoot your
network, this lack of feedback is kind
of making your troubleshooting more
difficult for you as well. And another
really important concept here in general
firewalls and ACL's as well are based on
a concept called implicit deny. This
means that unless a specific type of
traffic is explicitly allowed through an
ATL, that traffic will be denied. Think
of the name access control list. So it's
just a list of who has access. If you're
not on the list, your access is denied.
So remember this that all ACL's end with
an implicit deny at the bottom. Now some
vendors will allow you to see that entry
and of course not allow you to change it
to modify it. Others won't, but you have
to know that it is in there. If traffic
doesn't match an ACL, it's going to be
dropped, denied, rejected, whatever.
It's not going to pass. And another
important concept when uh using
firewalls and in fact when applying
access lists is the answer to the
question in which direction are you
going to apply that access list. It
could be inbound or it could be
outbound. And we're talking here about
ingress filtering or egress filtering.
Now normally ingress and egress
basically mean uh whatever type of
traffic enters or leaves your firewall.
But in let's say security speak real
life situations will address ingress
traffic as traffic that is about to
enter your high security network your
internal network while egress traffic is
about the traffic that is about to leave
your internal network. So, traditionally
we have always focused on ingress
filtering which is about, you know,
keeping the nasty stuff out, keeping it
from getting inside of our network. And
this still applies, don't get me wrong.
There's an entire world full of
networkbased threats out there. But now
with the more advanced threats that we
are facing, we have to accept the fact
that malware might enter our network
without being detected by our perimeter
firewall. So we have to focus on
containing the damage or the malware
that attempts to communicate for example
with some command and control server on
the internet. This is where egress rules
come into play. They're going to stop
malware that is already in your network
from contacting their their master their
their attacker that controls uh the
botnet. Then actually egress filtering
is not just useful for blocking command
and control traffic but also for
blocking access to known malware sites
or domains or IP addresses with bad
reputation or any other restricted
locations on the internet. We might
choose to deny your users from
accessing. For example, you might want
to deny your users access to public file
sharing services or peer-to-peer
downloads like torrent because they're
definitely a possible point of entry for
malware. You can also rely on publicly
available uh IP and domain name
reputation lists. So whenever you see an
internal user attempting to connect to a
location to an IP address or to a domain
name that is known to have a bad
reputation, you can choose to deny that
traffic before giving that user the
chance to connect to that malicious
location and potentially become infected
and not just their workstation but
potentially your entire network as well.
You can also use egress filtering to
block outside access for any subnets or
hosts that should not have any kind of
internet access that should not connect
to the internet. Think about industrial
systems, manufacturing engines or highly
secured servers that should not ever
connect to the public internet. And
another interesting concept here also
related to firewalls is the concept of
firewalking. Now, from an attacker's
perspective, a firewall is a barrier,
but it's a kind of a barrier that still
lets some traffic in in specific
conditions. Otherwise, you wouldn't have
any online presence at all, and you
would be much safer simply disconnecting
entirely from the internet. So,
firewalking is a set of techniques for
testing quote unquote firewall rules
while mapping it from the outside. So
basically an attacker who performs firew
walking tries to hit the firewall with
various types of traffic and watches how
the firewall reacts to that traffic. It
can rely on setting different TCP flags.
It can rely on TTL that's time to live
manipulation. These techniques can be
used to locate forwarded ports
configured on that firewall that might
be sending you directly to some device
behind the firewall. So you can use this
technique to easily find those those
forwarded ports and firewalking can be
performed in a number of ways. One of
them is TTL. Now TTL is an a field in
the IP header. It can take any value
from zero to 255. Now the TTL as the
name says time to live is actually a
very old method uh starting from the uh
the beginnings of the IP protocol for
avoiding routing loops. Initially, it
was designed to measure the time a
packet spends inside of a network. It
was never implemented that way. So
nowadays, as it has been for quite some
time. So the TTL nowadays is actually a
hop count where a hop is considered to
be any router on the path to the
destination. Any layer three
intermediate device on the path to the
destination. And as we said, the TTL was
designed as a mechanism against IP
packets ending up in an infinite loop uh
in an IP network. So when IP packets are
sent, they're initialized with a default
TTL value depending on the operating
system, let's say something like 64. And
on every hop along the way, on every
router, that value is decremented by
one. Now, what happens when the TTL
reaches zero? Well, of course, the
packet is not forwarded anymore, but the
router that decrements this TTL field
and reaches zero also sends back an ICMP
message to the originator of the
original IP packet, informing the sender
that the TTL has expired and the packet
cannot reach its destination. Now, I'm
sure you can think of a couple of um
benefits from an admin point of view
from using this TTL in network mapping,
network discovery, uh reachability
testing and so on. But we can actually
use this TTL as a technique for
firewalking as well. So, in this example
right here, host A is attempting to
communicate with host B. And we have a
couple of routers/ firewalls in between.
Now let's assume that ace tries to send
a packet here with a TTL of five. Now
this TTL of five is of course going to
reach the first router here which is
going to decrement it set it to four.
Forward it to the next router which is
going to set it to three. Forward it to
the next one. Sets it to two. Then one.
And finally
the last one here the actual destination
is going to decrement this TTL field and
it's going to reach zero. Now when this
happens host B is going to inform the
source of this traffic. It's going to
inform host A of the fact that the TTL
has expired. And this is actually going
to be an ICMP message called time
exceeded. Now, there's not much use in
this message normally, right? We just
know that the TTL wasn't enough to reach
our intended destination. But if this
last device right here was a firewall,
so let's assume that this one right here
is a firewall, the fact that we were
able to decrease the TTL starting from 5
4 3 2 1 and then reaching zero
means that we were able to reach a
server behind that firewall. So we found
a hole in that firewall. We found a
forwarded port. We found a u an access
policy that allows us to reach the
server. Now the server might not be
configured to answer to any outside
requests or to any unauthenticated uh
sessions or we might not even know what
ex what type of service that that
service that server is running. But ICMP
time exceeded messages are very often
forgotten by admins. People just forget
about it. people just allow ICMP because
they know it allows them to ping and
trace route and so on and so forth. They
don't think about specific ICMP messages
and what they do. And very often you
will receive a time exceeded message
from a server that should be protected
by a firewall. And this is how you
discover that a specific port or a
specific uh IP address behind of that
firewall is reachable from the outside.
And that's a very important information
as an attacker or as a pentester. And by
the way, ICMP time exceeded is ICMP
message code number 11. Remember this
for the exam. might help you out one
day. Let me just close this video with a
short example. What you see here on the
slide is an example from the dashboard
of a 40iggate next generation firewall
from Forinet. And you can see here on
the left that I'm currently in the
policy and objects section under
firewall policies. So what you see here
on the screen each line is actually a
firewall policy defined on this device.
Let's let's just choose one here and uh
try to understand what exactly is going
on in here. First of all, you can see
that these policies here are listed in a
specific order, which is relevant
because a firewall normally will search
within these these policies from top to
bottom and it's going to find the first
one that matches a specific type of
traffic. Now, when it finds a policy
that matches that traffic, it's going to
apply the action under this column right
here. You can see that most of the rules
here are set to accept the traffic. We
do have a couple of rules here that deny
the traffic. And at the very bottom, we
can even see the implicit deny rule
which cannot be removed, cannot be uh
modified in any way. And you can see
that it is actually a rule that applies
to all traffic from any interface going
to any interface, applies to any source,
any destination, always runs for all
services, which means all protocols, all
applications. And the action is always
deny. So if I don't have any other valid
policy that is going to match my
traffic, my traffic is going to be
implicitly dropped. Now let's go back
here to one of our examples. This policy
here, you can see it has a name and an
ID. Under the from column, we're going
to see two interfaces. Now, normally you
would think about the fact that if a
firewall has a number of physical
interfaces, you can only define policies
between those physical interfaces. That
is not true because we can also have uh
virtual interfaces as well like VLANs or
sub interfaces. In this case, we have
two traffic sources, two interfaces. The
first one is a VLAN and I believe the
second one is also a VLAN as well. All
right. Now, under the two column, we can
see we have a physical destination. This
is the WAN uplink destination. It's a 10
Gbit per second physical interface
located on the actual device. All right.
So all the traffic that comes from these
two VLANs and attempts to exit this
physical interface is going to be
subjected to this firewall policy. Now
the source and the destination refer to
subnets. Right? In this case the all
keyword means I don't exactly care what
IP addresses are coming from those uh
those VLANs or what kind of IP addresses
uh my users are trying to access as the
destination. I'm just going to match all
traffic. Next one is a schedule.
As part of the next generation firewall
policies or more advanced firewalls
anyway, you can actually create firewall
policies that run on a predefined
schedule. So you might have a set of
policies that apply during work hours,
not a set of policies that apply outside
working hours or during weekends and so
on. The service column is going to state
the protocols that are matched by our
policy. In our case here, you can see
that we're using again the old keyword
which matches all the protocols. But if
we look under other policies under the
same column you can see that uh there
are policies that apply only to certain
pro protocols like for example sys log
and DNS. Moving forward NAT is a very
typical type of policy traffic policy
that applies to firewalls. Firewalls
will most likely perform network address
translation as well. Not for all
policies of course, but if you use a
firewall as an internet connection
device, you will probably perform that
for any connections that attempt to
reach the internet. Next up, under the
security profiles column here on the
right, you can actually see the advanced
functionality
available in a next generation firewall.
And that's exactly what we talked about
a couple of minutes ago. Now, if you
remember, we talked about next
generation firewalls and UTMS. And
there's a lot of overlap between these
two marketing terms, but basically they
both refer to devices that are not just
stateful firewalls, but devices that are
able to inspect traffic up to the
application level and also provide
additional security features such as
antivirus monitoring or uh application
identification, web traffic monitoring,
IPS traffic inspection, intrusion
prevention here, and finally SSL. In
this case, this is an SSL inspection,
but it can also be an SSL offloading
service. Now, all these are security
profiles that can be assigned to a
firewall policy, and they're going to be
automatically applied to all the traffic
that matches this specific security
policy. So, you can pretty much imagine
that to be able to provide antivirus
monitoring to a simple policy that
matches all traffic and all protocols,
well, that firewall should be pretty
smart. and uh you know decomposing
traffic reassembling the actual files
within an HTTP or an FTP transfer and
figuring out if those files are
malicious or not. So this is definitely
deep packet inspection sometimes even
traffic decryption and this is certainly
application level awareness and
intelligence. Last column here is about
logging. uh depending on your uh your
environment, you might want to log all
traffic or you might want to log only
denied traffic, everything that was
dropped by your firewall because that
kind of traffic has some potential of
being malicious. And finally, the last
entry here shows you exactly how many
bytes have matched this policy. It's a
great way to validate that the policy is
actually matching the traffic that
you're intending to match and also works
quite well for uh reporting purposes. So
that's an example of a next generation
firewall/UTTM
device called Forigate available for
Forinet. By the way, you can access this
uh this demo publicly. It's freely
available for everyone. Of course, you
only get readonly access here, but it's
more than enough to figure out what are
the uh the potential capabilities of
this this platform and of pretty much
any next generation firewall/UTM
uh device available for from other
vendors out there. All right. So, I
really hope you found this section
useful and informative because firewalls
are becoming a critical infrastructure
component in anything related to
security nowadays. Now, they're becoming
a security in a box type of devices
where companies are trying to implement
everything that is related to security
in one single device. Now if they
succeeded this or not uh remains to be
decided but they're definitely one of
the most important devices that you will
find in enterprise networks especially
from a security standpoint. So for the
exam make sure you understand the
purpose behind firewalls. Make sure you
understand uh what is um what are the
typical types of firewalls that you can
encounter. Uh make sure you familiarize
your yourself with the with the names
even though even the marketing ones.
Make sure you understand the basic
concepts of matching traffic and then
acting on it, allowing it or denying it.
Remember that there's an always implicit
deny rule in pretty much any firewall or
access control list out there. And make
sure you understand the purpose behind
firew walking as well. So, thank you so
much for watching. Like and subscribe if
you found this useful. Good luck on the
exam and see you next time.
[Music]