If you're an intelligent person, and I
know you are because you're watching
this, well, that intelligence probably
comes from your parents, either genes or
education. But when it comes to security
intelligence, well, that's a completely
different story. And it takes some real
effort before you can brag about it.
So what is security intelligence? It's
an entire process where information that
comes from well pretty much everything
that can generate information in your
company is collected is analyzed and
then we draw some conclusions based on
it. Well, if those conclusions refer in
any way to how secure is our
organization or our systems, then that
is security intelligence. And as you can
probably guess, if this intelligence is
about computer systems or electronic
data, we're going to call it cyber
security intelligence. Now, CTI, keyword
threat, is about that information or
intelligence of the world outside this
time. How bad is the neighborhood that
we live in? How bad is the internet? Uh
what attacks are currently happening in
the world? Are there companies similar
to ours that are being targeted? Zero
day exploits, uh, active hacker groups,
zero day exploits, active hacker groups,
anything bad that is currently happening
out there. So, security intelligence and
cyber threat intelligence together help
you know exactly who is out there to get
you, how are they doing it, and what you
need to do about it. Now, that sounds
like intelligence, right?
But how exactly do you get this
information? Where should we look for
this intelligence? Well, first you can
just read about them. What types of
attacks are out there or have been
detected in the past? Uh what attack
methods or vulnerability types are more
common? This is a very useful
information when you need to buy some
security equipment and you have to
decide on a vendor and a specific
feature set and also when you need to
reconfigure some stuff in your network.
For example, when you're extending your
network or your company, how do you
secure that new branch? Or when you add
a new application in your company? Now,
I don't need to tell you that this
requires a lot of manual effort and
expensive people if you want a job well
done. So, an alternative to the manual
effort is the data feed or the threat
feed that is an online source of data
designed to be queried automatically by
applications, security, and networking
devices. The data feed provides a
continuous flow of information about
specific things to look out for like
back domains or uh URLs that host
malware, IP addresses with bad
reputation, uh attack signatures, spam
sources, even your antivirus database
and the updates that it receives can be
considered a threat feed. The purpose is
to minimize manual intervention. Data
feed updates can be automated and
ideally they would also be always up to
date and sometimes they can even provide
real-time information about attacks or
threats that are currently happening
right now in the world. Of course, if
you want it to be automated, reliable
and cheap, I can only choose two. So, a
good threat feed will cost you some
money for the subscription. Another very
important source of information is
looking into the historical or trend
information. We'll get back to this
later, but just to keep things short,
where do you think is the largest amount
of information located? Well, obviously,
if it's already out there, then it must
have been generated sometime in the
past. So, it should be in your logs, in
your alerts, in your historical trends
that you've generated over time. That is
where you can look and where you can
start seeing patterns uh like in the
matrix. I hope you're not studying it or
cyber security without having seen the
movie matrix. So patterns is where you
can learn from mistakes and know when
something goes off pattern and it might
signal a threat even before you know
what the threat is. And of course it
depends on how you look at this
information. One might be some mundane
information like an employee logging in
twice in uh 10 minutes but correlated
with some other factors like the first
connection came from the US and the
second one came from China it might
indicate some problems. So we are
talking about computer threats cyber
security threats and later on we'll see
how to mitigate them or avoid them
completely but until we reach that point
let's start with the basics. Say you
want to defend yourself against
potential attackers. Where do you start?
A good starting point are those
intelligence sources that we've
mentioned, which are also a source for
reconnaissance. And reconnaissance
basically means finding out more stuff
about your target that you can leverage
when you're about to attack that target.
But we're the good guys. All right? We
don't usually attack, but we need to
know the mindset of the attacker in
order to properly defend ourselves. And
this starts with the question, what
could a potential attacker find out
about us? Well, the first category is
open- source intelligence or OENT.
That's data available in public sources
uh which are just as easily accessible
for you as they are for the hackers. Uh
these sources give a lot of information
without actually being involved or
interacting with a company or a person.
So, it's information that you can find
in the media, on the internet, in public
government data, including financials or
online publications. Your website is
another very important source of
information. For example, if you're
listing all your staff members in there,
LinkedIn can also provide a lot of
information about your company. And be
very careful with job descriptions that
you're posting. You might be giving up
valuable information about your IT
systems. If you're looking for a
firewall engineer or of a specific brand
or module, there you go. Everybody knows
that you own those firewalls. Now, in
general, be aware that you're probably
giving out more information than you
think the outside world. Go ahead,
search your name or a work colleague or
the company you work for on Google and
uh well, see what you can find. By the
way, open source means overt or publicly
accessible. It's not related to open-
source software in any way. Of
course, dedicated tools for
reconnaissance can make your life just a
bit easier by automating your
reconnaissance efforts like correlating
information from multiple search
engines. We'll have a look over some of
these tools in a moment.
And you also have open-source feeds.
Well, they give you access to reputation
databases and malware signatures without
any subscription.
Government agencies are one such open
source. For example, in the US, you have
the NCAS,
no, not NCIS, which is the National
Cyber Awareness System.
The Alien Vault guys are nice enough to
provide some free threat intelligence as
well. The MISP project is another
standardized collection of open- source
feeds.
And you might not think about it and you
probably know about virus total that it
can be used to analyze malware files but
it can also provide some insight into
the reputation of specific URLs.
And don't forget about blogs or
convention websites. A lot of smart
people are constantly contributing to
the security blogs and publications. at
least have a look over this list of top
50 security blogs and try to figure out
which one of these apply to you and to
your company.
Finally, closed source intelligence is
collected and organized by security
vendors. They're usually
subscription-based, which means that
you'll have to make some payments from
time to time, but they should be better
maintained than the open- source ones.
Just be careful. Some smaller vendors
out there just repackage open source
content and uh ask you money for those.
Some examples here would be uh IBM's
force exchange from surprise IBM.
Fire Eye another very well-known
security vendor
foret is another very popular security
vendor and they have their own
subscription service called Forguard.
And of course, we should mention Cisco
with their Talos cloud service, which
not only provides you with security
intelligence, but also learns from
current Cisco customers. And um given
just how widespread Cisco is within the
enterprise environment, Telos has become
a very powerful tool. Before digging
into more advanced tools, don't forget
about the most basic tools either like
who is. This is a free public database
about who is responsible for pretty much
every internet resource. Uh websites, IP
addresses. Also, this database can be
accessed on a number of websites. Uh
Google a couple of them. Just pick one
and go.
DNS can also be queried for a lot of
interesting information, especially when
looking for alternate domains,
subdomains, mail servers, web servers,
and sometimes you can even find out some
information about internal servers of
some company if the DNS server is not
configured properly.
On Linux and Mac OS, you can also use
mostly out ofthe-box tools like Dig and
Host, or you can use a web service
instead, like the uh dig utility from
Google Toolbox.
Finally, zone transfers can sometimes be
attempted on badly configured DNS
servers. Normally, a zone transfer is an
internal operation used by admins to
replicate a DNS database between
multiple servers. But sometimes it just
happens mostly because somebody was not
careful that this functionality is
exposed to the internet as well. When
this happens, you can simply request the
entire DNS information on the server and
uh it will be handed to your client, no
questions asked.
The number of tools at your disposal for
gathering open- source intelligence is
huge. I'm mentioning just a few of them
here that might help you on the exam,
but for the exam purposes, you really
only need to recognize them and be aware
of how they work in general. FOCA or
fingerprinting organizations with
collected archive. If it sounds weird,
it might be because it seems to be
translated from Spanish. Anyway, it's a
tool for scanning document metadata. So,
anything that can be extracted from
office files, uh, PDF files, XF
information and images, uh, uses a
couple of search engines to find out
more information about that extracted
data. The harvester sounds like a
wrestler's name, uh, determines a
company's external threat landscape on
the internet. So, it answers the
question, how exposed are we? searches
for names, email, subdomains, valid IP
addresses, and URLs using multiple
public sources on the internet. By the
way, this is not illegal. Everything is
just public information. You're not
hacking anything or anyone.
Showdan, it's a search engine for
anything connecting to the internet.
Widely used to identify unsecured
servers, IoT devices, home routers, and
webcams. Maltiggo uses open- source
intelligence information and can
determine relationships between
companies, even between people.
Reckon NNG, it's a Python tool that
performs web reconnaissance and can also
be used in pentesting scenarios
sometimes. Census, it's another device
search engine. searches among any
devices connected to the internet and
provides you with as much information as
can be gathered from the outside.
Website rippers are another category.
They simply clone an entire website's
files on your machine. Of course, you
will not be able to copy the uh perhaps
the PHP or the ASP scripts in the back
end and neither you will be able to copy
the database. But webpage code might
reveal some forgotten information. Might
expose some vulnerabilities. Uh might
include some email addresses in there.
Not to mention that you could find out
that you have access to specific website
regions that are normally hidden from
normal user navigation. A very special
mention has to be made for Google.
Google in itself indexes a large portion
of the public internet which means that
there is a lot of useful information in
its index. You just have to be able to
look for it. Uh, some examples here. You
can use quotes to search for specific
phrases. You can add a minus sign in
front of a word or a quoted phrase to
exclude it from results. You can return
pages that include both search terms
because by default, Google assumes an or
operator between all your search words.
You can search for specific file types,
titles, or URL components.
Most of them can be accessed from the
advanced search page on Google as well.
Google hacking database includes some
very smart examples that extensively use
these operators.
Finally, the last step in your
intelligence gathering twist will be
answering the question, is this source
trustworthy? And is this specific piece
of information true? Also, I might tell
you that I trust this source and I
believe this information. Is this enough
for you to trust the same source and
believe the same information? So the
criteria that we should be looking for
would be timeliness. Information should
not be old. That's especially important
in cyber security because simply
discovering a threat, talking about it,
showing up in the media. This tells the
attacker that their attack has become
public knowledge. So that makes the
threat evolve. So is the Intel source up
to date or not?
Relevancy. Does it apply to you? You
might have an Intel source about a
specific threat that attacks systems or
protocols or processes that are
completely absent in your environment.
It has to be relevant to you. Accuracy.
Is the source so specific that it'll
allow you to immediately build some sort
of defense and control against it? or is
it just something uh generic, some
threat out there to think about that we
don't really know how it looks, how it
behaves, and we have just a general idea
about how to protect ourselves against
it. And of course, now more than ever,
be aware of fake news and fake
information. Sometimes a clickbait is
just that. Nowadays, everybody has a
voice on the internet, so it's up to you
which ones you listen to.
And since all this sounds terribly
subjective to interpretation, well, for
the exam, we need to know something
called the Admiral T system or the NATO
system, which is a method for evaluating
the reliability of a source and the
credibility of the information. Now, of
course, government organizations would
be more in touch with this rather than
the private sector, but unfortunately
also is your dear exam.
Now for the exam, make sure you
understand the different intelligence
sources that we've discussed about and
you can provide some examples of them
and you can also recognize some of those
threat information sources. Remember
that even simple tools like Google or
LinkedIn or utilities like Ping, who is
or simple DNS lookups can provide with
you a lot of valuable information about
the person or a company. And keep in
mind that you need to always be on top
of this information because hackers have
access to it too. Thank you for your
time. Don't forget to subscribe to
Certified Breakfast. Good luck and see
you on the next video.
[Music]