[Music]
Hi everyone and welcome back. Now, if
you've been watching this series, you
know that we've covered so far a lot of
attacks and mitigation techniques. Now,
we still have a couple more to cover
before we can wrap this chapter up. And
that's exactly what we're going to do
right now. And because I hate the
expression, without further ado, I'm
just going to say let's not waste any
more time and jump into the first one,
which is privilege escalation. Now,
privilege escalation, just like the name
says, happens when an attacker manages
somehow to gain access to some
privileged resources that normally they
wouldn't have access to. And by resource
I mean it could be anything like a file,
a database record, a network location,
anything that should not be accessible
by regular users or outside users for
that matter. And well since normally
when you access a system as a normal
user, there is no legitimate way to
promote yourself to a privileged user
like a root or admin. And most privilege
escalation attacks attempt to run some
code with root or admin privileges by
exploiting some vulnerability. So
basically they're looking for a flaw in
the software itself that might allow
them to execute operations that would
normally be allowed just for admins.
And well as you know applications and
processes uh run with the privilege of
some account usually a system account
and they have certain privileges as they
need to read and write data uh to
interact with the system to interact
with network resources. So they they do
have some limited uh privileges. Now
exploiting such an application usually
means injecting some customized attacker
code into the application itself so that
the application is going to execute the
attacker's code with the application's
permissions. So basically if you find a
web server that is running as root on a
Linux machine and you manage to convince
that web server to exploit it to execute
your own code well then your code will
be executed as root on that specific
machine.
Now of course we also have legitimate
privilege escalation in most operating
systems and sometimes these are exactly
those operations that attackers attempt
to exploit such as pseudo that's super
user do. It's a command that you can use
to prefix other commands in a Linux
environment uh in order to execute those
commands with uh elevated privileges
most likely with root privileges. It's
the equivalent of the run as
administrator right-click option
whenever you you try to launch an
application in Windows. Now, of course,
not everybody has pseudo or run as admin
privileges. This is also going to be
part of the privilege list of a specific
subset of users. So, basically, we have
somewhat two layers of security here.
First of all, we have just a specific
subset of users that are allowed to
pseudo or to run as admin. And then
secondly, those users also need to
provide some valid credentials either an
admin password, a root password in order
to temporarily execute that set of
operations with increased privilege. Now
try this on Linux or Windows blocks and
you will be prompted for an admin or a
root password or pseudo password just to
execute a privileged operation. Now how
do we fight this? How do we mitigate
this? As you can probably guess, the
first step would be don't allow the
application to be exploited as much as
you can. So, patch it, you know,
security updates and such. Secondly,
make sure you use strong passwords or
even better, try using multifactor
authentication. So, not just something
that you know or the admin is supposed
to know, but also something that you
have like a smart card or a one-time
password generator and even sometimes
accompanied by something that you are
that is biometric identification. you
know the face of fingerprint, the retina
scan and such. Don't forget to implement
the least privilege principle. That is
don't provide more privileges to a user
or to an application more than they
require to do their jobs because in case
that user account or that application
gets compromised, well, the attacker is
going to inherit all those permissions
and they most certainly are going to
abuse those permissions. And of course,
I cannot stress this enough. Sanitize
your input, input validation, because
all that happens as a code injection, as
a remote exploit. It all comes in as
some sort of input. It doesn't matter if
it comes through a web form, if it comes
through the network, if it comes in an
email or in a in a file that the
application is supposed to open. It's
all input. always validate everything
that you receive to minimize as much as
possible the potential for exploits. And
I don't I don't really think I need to
mention this here, but but I'll just
reiterate this one more time. Make sure
you remove any default credentials or
you change the default credentials on
your machines because a lot of
networking devices, servers,
applications, they all have demo
accounts, test accounts, maybe accounts
that were used during the testing phase
or doing a PC. Don't forget about those.
Also, don't forget that default
passwords can be found all over the
place online. So, for example, on this
just an example website here, I want to
find out what is the default password
for let's say a linkxis router. Let's
select links here on the left and let's
say WRT150N.
All right. So, its configuration can be
accessed from this default IP address
using a blank username and a default
password of admin. That's a set of
default credentials. Anybody can access
this. Don't forget about these. Don't
let them unsupervised. Don't leave them
unsupervised in your uh in your
environment. Now, just to put things
into perspective, let's see an example
of privilege escalation combined with
grabbing the hashes, the password hashes
from a live Windows system. Now, one
thing to to remember here in all
examples like these demonstrations like
these, they're all based on a specific
type of vulnerability that we're trying
to exploit. So, if you try this on the
latest and the greatest and the most
up-to-date version of Windows, it's most
likely not going to work. But not
everybody is using the latest and the
greatest updated version of Windows.
That's how attackers get a real chance
of hacking live systems. And it makes
sense not to work on the latest versions
because old vulnerabilities get patched
every single day. So you need to
discover new exploits, new
vulnerabilities and of course on the
cyber security analyst side, you need to
discover new methods of mitigating them.
Okay. So let's see here an example. Now
we're going to be using the metas-ploit
framework which is by default available
in security distributions like Kal Linux
or Parrot OS or Parrot Security like the
one that I'm using right here. Now,
we're going to be building using MSF
Venom a malicious payload that is going
to be delivered to a victim. Then, we
need to trick that victim into executing
this file. Now, what this file does is
going to be uh based on the reverse TCP
payload as you can see here in the
command line. What's going to do is it's
going to attempt to connect back to
ourselves. So the victim is going to try
to initiate a connection back to the
attacker, thus giving us access and a
solid connection to that victim's
machine, which we can then try to
further exploit. And the address that
we're using here is going to be denoted
by the Lhost, which is the local host.
Uh that's our machine right now,
1010.13.
All right. So let's uh let's execute
this. Okay. So we have one valid
executable file. Uh now we need to push
this file somehow to the victim's
machine. So what we can do right now is
we can upload it to a web location for
example. So in our lab here we're also
hosting a uh web server. It's an Apache
2 web server and just going to move that
exe file in the root folder of Apache.
Uh then we're going to start the
metas-ploit framework and we're going to
start a handler which is just a piece of
code that expects connections from
potential victims. All right. So we need
to make sure that we have everything in
place on the attacker side as well. All
right. So the payload is going to be
also of type reverse TCP because we
expect reverse TCP connections to go
back to us. We're going to be listening
on our own IP address and we have the
reverse TCP handler started on port 444.
All right, let's move over to the
victim's machine right now. All right,
we're pushing this executable file now
to the victim's machine. uh we can give
them a link to download the file direct
you can hide this link in an email or in
an instant message uh just make sure
that you convince the victim to run that
executable file. Now once that file is
run uh back on our metasloit console we
can see that we have one session that
has been opened. So we are seeing one
connection back from our victim. Now the
victim is 1010.10 10 as you can see here
on the right starting from port 5389 and
the connection is created back to port
4444 on our machine. All right, we can
now interact with this session. So we
can basically just run commands just
like we could directly on that victim's
machine. Now get UID is going to give us
the uh the name of the current user. In
our case, it's going to be admin. Pay
attention, it's not administrator, it's
just admin. And just to make our life
easier, we're going to be using here a
dedicated tool called Broot. Uh, which
is just a small utility that is designed
to look for misconfigurations on a
Windows system that can be exploited for
you to become administrator or Broot.
All right, so that it's simply looking
for opportunities to escalate our
privilege. Coming back here to our
metas-ploit console, we can now upload
this brute.exe to the victim's machine
into their uh desktop folder. Right. We
can then create a shell direct shell or
cmd shell on that victim's machine just
by using the command shell. And then
we're going to be running bu.exe.
Now we do have some opportunity here for
privilege escalation. So we're going to
try to dump the hashes the password
hashes from this newly compromised
machine. All right, we're going to run
smart hash dump for this. And as you can
see, we don't have enough privileges to
dump hashes just yet. Remember that the
admin user was not exactly administrator
was just admin. Okay. But we do have
some good news from the Broot executable
that we can actually elevate our
privileges. Now, one of the things that
we found out by running Broot is the
fact that we can exploit a vulnerability
that allows us to bypass UAC. That's
user account control. That's the
security measure that Windows uses
whenever you try to execute some
privileged operation where it's going to
ask you for permissions or even for your
admin password. So, we're going to have
to bypass this by using a different type
of exploit. All right. So, we're going
to use this exploit here to bypass UAC.
So, show options here tells us that we
already have everything configured here.
So, local host, that's our IP address.
Local port, that's our listening
address. And we also need a valid
session. And we do have an active
session as well. Okay. So, let's set
that session to number one, the exact
same one that we currently have running.
Okay. So, we have a target set up from
the active session and we can just run
exploit now. All right, you can see UAC
is enabled. Checking the level.
Bypass UAC can bypass this setting.
That's good news, right? Continuing.
Okay, going to make some changes in the
registry. And right now, if we type get
UID, we can see that we are still admin.
So the same user as before, but we can
call the bypass UAC exploit by using get
system. Okay, apparently uh type one is
not necessary here. So let's just write
get system like this. All right. So, we
got system, which means we got root. We
got admin privileges. Let's type
actually let's check this out. Get UID
again. And this time, we're not just the
administrator user, but we're actually
the system user. That's the supreme user
account machine account actually on any
Windows system. So, we can do anything
that we want right now, including
getting all the user password hashes.
Okay, we can uh run the smart hash dump
command as well. And there you have it.
Now these are all the users defined on
the system starting with the
administrator user and the first code
right there the code for 500 tells us
that that is a real administrator user
and all the password hashes listed right
here. So you can just take these Windows
hashes these antique hashes and just
dump them in a brute force password
cracker in a dictionary uh cracker or a
rainbow table anything that you have at
your disposal to try to find out what
the um passwords for these accounts are.
What even better now since you have
access administrator access to this
system you can just create your own user
that's your own admin user hidden from
every everybody else so that you have a
permanent backdoor whenever you want to
come back and uh you know control this
machine in the future. One more thing
that any uh let's say well educated
attacker should do is of course to clear
their traces. So clear EV is going to
clear the logs. So, it's basically
clearing the system events so that they
won't be visible. So, there you have it.
Combine privilege escalation and
grabbing password hashes from a live
system. And by the way, that's Windows
10. So, don't think that we've hacking,
I don't know, Windows XP or something
like that. It's just Windows 10 that
doesn't have the latest and greatest
security updates. Another type of attack
which unfortunately is is not among the
most popular ones nowadays. Uh but it's
still going to be relevant for the exam
is called pass the hash or pass the hash
attack. The main idea behind pass the
hash or pth is the fact that most
services will hash your password and
then check for those two hashes to match
the one that's calculated and the one
that's stored in the local database. Now
some services older versions of
Kerbrarus especially so so older
versions of the authentication and
authorization process in Windows would
allow an exploit where you would just
have to present a valid password hash
without even knowing what the the
underlying password is and then you
would be granted access. That's why it's
called pass the hash. So we're not
passing over the password. We're passing
the actual hash which can be harvested
can be determined if you manage to break
into one of those devices. You don't
even have to know what the original
password is. You just present a hash and
you are given access. As I said, this is
only relevant for older versions of
Windows. But keep in mind that even
newer versions of Windows still allow
you to activate a backwards
compatibility mode with older versions
of other Windows clients, for example,
that you might have in your network. If
somebody's still using Windows XP in
your network or or even older versions
of Windows, you will probably have to
activate those backward compatibility
features. And this also is going to
expose you to these legacy types of
attacks. Now, one more idea here
regarding Keraros. And we're not going
to go into too much detail here because
this is more like Security Plus content.
This is described in much greater detail
in Security Plus. But we have the
concept of a golden ticket. And the
golden ticket is a type of identifier
that can grant any permission in an
active directory domain including admin
permissions. And the problem is that on
previous implementations of Keraros uh
dumping the active directory data store
provided access to something called the
Keraros ticket granting ticket hashes.
So, we're basically dumping something
similar to a root password of the system
that we can then use later on and
provide admin credentials, admin rights
to any user inside of the domain,
including of course malicious users.
Keep in mind this as a concept for the
exam. You don't need to know how to
configure it. You don't even know how it
is implemented for the CYU Plus. I would
encourage you to read more about
Keraros, but it's not exactly the focus
of Cisoplus. As I said, this is much
greatly covered in security plus. But
remember the golden ticket what it does
and that it applies to Keraros. That
should be enough for decisive plus.
Finally, another one that you've most
probably heard about before is called
man-in-the-middle or the
man-in-the-middle attack. And in most
cases, this expression is used in a
networking environment. So, we're
talking about network traffic that gets
intercepted by a third party. Now
intercepting that traffic of course
enables the third party the attacker in
our case to inspect your traffic perhaps
to make changes into your uh into your
request or replies. Now on the other
hand this is still one extra hop in the
communication path. So optionally for a
successful man-in-the-middle attack the
attacker doesn't just grab the traffic
inspects it and discards it but it also
forwards it to the proper destination.
So, so that in an ideal
man-in-the-middle attack, the attack
itself is not even going to be visible
or detectable by the victim. And a
man-in-the-middle attack doesn't just
apply to networks in traffic. It can
also apply to software, which in most
cases is going to be some sort of code
injection into an application that
intercepts whatever the user does. It's
also called in case of web applications,
man in the browser. So imagine you have
a compromised browser because you just
clicked on some link or executed some
binary file that you received over email
or over instant messaging and your
browser gets infected. Now when you're
interacting with different websites all
over the internet, your commands, your
clicks, whatever you're typing into a
web form or even screenshots of your
activity might be forwarded to some
attacker's computer. That's a man in the
browser. So basically the attacker
intercepts your action through an
infected browser. Also, an example of
man-in-the-middle attack could be
considered the actions of key loggers.
Small programs that run hidden on your
machine. Again, installed as a result of
some malicious code execution that grab
your keystrokes, uh grab all your
websites that you're visiting, all the
passwords that you're you're typing at
the keyboard and uh then saving that
information or even sending it over the
network to some attacker's workstation.
Now a very let's say classic example of
man-in-the-middle is by performing an
ARP poisoning. ARP stands for address
resolution protocol and it's what we use
in our local networks in our switch
networks to find out the MAC addresses
that's the layer 2 addresses of the
devices we want to communicate with. So
for example in this simple network here
let's assume that host A wants to
communicate with server one. It already
knows server one's IP address. It's
right here. But it doesn't know server
one's MAC address. So it has to perform
an ARP request to find out this MAC
address. So host A is going to build a
small packet here which is going to
contain something like this who has IP
address 10001.
And this packet here since it doesn't
know who has it is going to be sent as a
broadcast which means that the switch
here is going to make sure that the
message gets received by all the hosts
in the same network segment including
server one of course. Now, host B is
going to ignore it because they don't
have this IP address. Host C is going to
ignore it as well. Server one is going
to accept it and it's going to build a
reply saying I do.
All right. And this ID here is going to
go back to the switch and this time it's
going to be a uniccast transmission
directly to the original requesttor that
is host A. Now host A knows both the IP
address and the MAC address of server
one and communication can flow
seamlessly between the two. Now the
problem with ARP is that it's a very old
protocol. It was invented pretty much at
the same time as the rest of the
Ethernet technologies which is which is
almost 50 years ago and nobody was
thinking about security back then which
means that ARP has somewhat of a too
trusting behavior when working inside of
a network. In fact, it's so trusting
that if a host receives a message, an
ARP reply like this blue one here
generated by the server. If any host
receives this reply is going to learn
whatever is written in that reply, even
though they haven't sent a request from
the beginning, they did not ask for it.
They're still going to record the
information in this ARP reply. Which
means that for an attacker, this is a
gold mine. Let's go back to the
beginning of this and let's assume that
host C had suddenly become malicious.
Right? So this one is now red. This one
is now an attacker. Now as an attacker,
host C can actually craft its own ARP
replies and can simply build an ARP
reply. And this ARP reply here is going
to say that IP address 10001 has the MAC
address of CDEF which is actually the
MAC address of the attacker. Now when
this packet gets sent over the network,
it can be a broadcast, can be a
uniccast, but let's assume that uh the
attacker is just targeting host A here.
Now when host A receives this packet,
the information within the packet will
tell host A that whenever they need to
reach server one, they should use the
MAC address cdef. So host A is going to
assemble its packets thinking that it's
communicating with server one. While in
reality the MAC address that the switch
is going to use to direct that packet is
going to be the MAC address of host C.
So basically all the traffic that leaves
host A towards server one is going to go
first through host C which can perform a
man in the middle. Normally it should
also forward it to the legitimate
destination which is server one so that
host A is not going to even realize the
fact that its traffic is being
intercepted. Similarly, if server one is
going to send their replies back to the
attacker, the attacker should forward
them back to host A so that host A can
see that communication with server one
still works. Now, unfortunately, it
does, but host C here in the middle is
going to intercept all that traffic. And
this is one is called our poisoning.
Now, in order to mitigate this, we have
two technologies that kind of work
together. The first one is called DAI,
that is dynamic ARP inspection. And this
one is configured on the switch, which
means that the switch is going to now
look at all the ARP requests and replies
and determine if they come from their
legitimate switch ports. How does it
know which switch port is legitimate or
not? Well, that's why we said we have
two technologies here. The second one is
actually called DHCP snooping which is
also configured on the switch as well
and allows the switch to look at all the
DHCP messages that dynamic host
configuration protocol. The protocol
that you use when you connect to a
network the very first time that allows
you to receive a valid IP address and
DNS information and everything else
looks at those requests right here in
order to determine where is each IP
address and each MAC located on its
switch ports. This way if we have these
two enabled at the same time, host C
here would not be able to fake an ARP
reply pretending to be server one
because the switch is going to deny it.
The switch knows that server one is not
located on this connection right here
towards host C. So it's not going to
accept any ARP replies that claim to be
server one coming from this switch port.
So these two together here going to
solve us the problem of our poisoning.
But you do need to have support for
these on the switches. So, you're
probably going to look at managed
switches, more expensive ones. And also,
you need someone who knows how to
configure it and knows about this these
technologies. You might pay for them,
but if nobody activates them on a
switch, you're just as exposed. Now,
don't forget about DNS either. That's
the service that resolves the website
names that we're accessing to real IP
addresses that we can communicate with.
Now, traditional attacks against DNS
servers aren't going to be the
traditional attacks against any type of
servers out there, email, web, instant
messaging, whatever they are. Uh, and
just like any application that accepts
some input, there might be some
vulnerabilities regarding buffer
overflows. And as we've seen in a
previous video, a buffer overflow can
have any number of consequences. can
allow us to change the information that
is stored in the web server. It can
allow us to crash the web server or can
simply allow us to read some information
as part of the reconnaissance process
before an attack. Another type of attack
that can be performed using DNS is DNS
amplification. And the amplification
attacks are actually a specific type of
attacks that don't just apply to DNS,
but to any protocol where the initial
request can be disproportionately small
in comparison to the reply. Now, think
about it this way. If you're accessing a
website, right, you're sending a HTTP
get request perhaps for a resource on
that website, which might be a file.
Well, that file might be one gigabyte in
size. How small is the request? How big
is the reply? All right, that's also a
potential for an amplification attack.
And this is also a kind of denial of
service attack. Now with DNS, we can
kind of obtain the same result here
because DNS requests are very small, but
the results from the DNS database of
that server can be huge. Now, how does
this help us? Well, at the most, we
would probably just flood ourselves,
right? We would probably just perform a
denial of service on ourselves, right?
Well, what if we send those DNS requests
with a spoofed source IP address? So,
instead of just, you know, sending those
DNS requests with my IP address as the
source, I'm going to send those with
somebody else's IP address as the source
league. That's not a legitimate packet,
but unless there is some device in the
network that can filter my traffic, it's
going to be allowed. So, I can just send
a DNS request with your IP source
address and the response is going to
come back to you. send a thousand a
million DNS requests all with the same
spoofed IP address and you just got a
denial service receiving 1 million or 1
billion DNS replies at the same time on
your you know IP address. How to fight
against DNS attacks? Well, just like
with any other service out there, make
sure it's up to date, all security
patches installed. Do some penetration
testing from time to time just to see if
new vulnerabilities might have been uh
discovered in the meantime. And also
since DNS as a service is designed to be
exposed to be available to everyone out
there especially for public accessible
resources or public websites which are
the most vulnerable implement some sort
of a block list right that can filter
out those undesirable sources of
traffic. If uh if at some point some IP
address on the internet attempted a
buffer overflow or attempted a denial of
service on your server, just ban that IP
address. Don't allow them to communicate
with you anymore. Finally, and this is
the last one for today, root kits.
Rootkits are a type of kernel level
malware, and it's usually they're
usually based on infecting or even
replacing operating system level files.
So, you're going to end up with a
different executable file for cmd.exe
exe or a different executable file for
Notepad exe or calculator .exe except
that the new executable file is infected
with malware. And if you think, okay,
those are not necessarily system files.
All right, then it can infect DL files
within Windows drivers that get loaded
whenever you boot your computer. That's
exactly the same behavior. the same
driver, the same DL file is going to be
loaded into memory, but it's going to
have an added bonus of a malicious code
in there, which on top of all is going
to run with root or administrator
privileges because those files are
loaded by the operating system when it
when it starts. Now, the silver lining
here about rootkits is the fact that in
order to install such a rootkit, you do
need to get root access because
otherwise you won't be able to replace
operating system level files. So that's
an extra security measure that makes
root kits not so easy to be implemented.
How do you mitigate this? Well, of
course, since it's malware, it's
malicious code, use an antivirus, an
updated antivirus. And secondly, since
we're talking about changing operating
system level files, those files should
be stable at least from one update to
the next, right? When you update the
operating system, perhaps a couple of
those operating system level files are
going to be changed, but nevertheless,
they are going to be signed. They're
going to be pre-authorized and you can
have a clear picture, a clear image of
how a clean installation of Windows, of
Linux should look like, which means that
in order to protect those files, you can
simply watch them and see if their
contents change over time. And we have
dedicated software that does this. It's
called FIMM or file integrity
monitoring, which does exactly that. It
simply creates some handles and attaches
them to operating system files. And
whenever a change, an unauthorized
change is detected in those operating
system files, then an alert is
generated. How do you detect a change in
a file? Well, we know this already. You
hash that file. And whenever and
whenever you detect a change in the hash
of that file, you can be pretty sure
that somebody changed the contents of
the file itself. Now, as far as file
integrity checkers go, the exam is most
likely going to ask you about tripwire.
So, make sure you remember that Ripwire
is one of these file integrity checkers
monitoring solutions specially designed
for Linux and it has a bunch of
functionality in here. It uses a local
database to keep track of all the files
and it monitors not just the hashes of
the files but also attributes such as
last time accessed, the last time
modified, who owns those files and stuff
like that. Okay, you can see the
integrity checking mode here. So make
sure you remember for the exam trip wire
as the number one example for file
integrity monitoring. An alternative to
tripwire is file site. This one is a bit
more complex and relies on agents
installed on the workstations which
communicate to a centralized console.
The agents are called satellites as you
can see here. And you can test it by
creating a secret file adding some
contents inside of that file and then
moving over to the admin console. You
can add a new monitor here specific for
files. I'm going to choose file
monitoring
also to generate actions for each event
separately
and as the monitor actions going to
define our own actions list.
Let's say we want to add the user to the
blocked user list. Right? We can run
this policy now
and let's make some changes here. add
more content to the secret txt file.
Go back to the administration console.
You're going to see all the detected
events
and one of them related to notepad is
going to be the exact right operation
that we performed on secret txt. So file
site successfully detected that the
contents of the text file have been
changed. Right now assuming that
somebody tries to delete that file,
let's see how file site reacts to this.
So, let's go back to our administrative
console here. And in just a few seconds
here, we should be able to see an alert.
There it is. User account was added to
the blocked user list just like we
specified in the policy. And this is a
just a very simple example of a much
more complicated file monitoring
solution. Now, this really was a pretty
huge chapter. Congratulations if you
made it this far. Remember that we
talked about the man-in-the-middle
attacks and we exemplified an our
poisoning attack. Now, that's not going
to be the only type of man-in-the-middle
attack, but make sure you understand
what's going on in there for the exam as
well. Also talked about DNS and how it
can be attacked and about root kits.
Know what they are and at least remember
trip wire because that's most likely
going to be a tool that the exam is
going to ask you about. Make sure you
understand everything we talked about
past the hash attack. And remember that
it also relates to older implementations
of AD hashes. So, it's all about Windows
systems. Also, talking about Windows
systems, don't forget about the golden
ticket attack. And remember that it
relates to Keraros. All right. So, for
next time, we're going to talk about
IoC's that indicators of compromise. And
we're going to talk about them in much
more depth. If you found this
informative and useful, make sure you
like and subscribe because that's all I
need to keep this channel going. Thank
you so much for watching, and good luck
until next time.
[Music]