[Music]
I would bet that you have a lock on your
door at home and that lock is there to
deny access to any uninvited people or
to keep some people out that have no
business being in your home. Pretty
straightforward. Now let's see how we
can apply the concept of a lock on a
door to keep people out of our network
as well. So we're going to call this
Knack or network access control. Now
Knack is a very broad topic and uh it
has been implemented over time in a
number of ways by different vendors out
there. You're going to find this this
Knack implementation even under
different names such as NAP or NAP
network access protection. That's one uh
that's one of the ways that Microsoft
refers to it. Other networking or
security vendors uh can refer to this as
port security. This one I believe was
introduced by Cisco and they actually
call this feature on their switches port
security. Again really generic, really
broad because it actually applies to a
lot of use cases. So knack or port
security is all about controlling
physical access to your network. It's
about deciding whether someone who plugs
a network cable from your company into
their laptop can or cannot access your
network. All right, so if we're talking
about controlling access to a network,
let's start with the basics. And what
can be more basic than controlling
physical access to your network? So
physical security is something that is
often overlooked. We try to focus so
much on technology and try to uh think
so much about advanced and complicated
complex security solution that we forget
that in most cases if an attacker or a
or a person with a malicious intent has
direct physical access to a network
device to a network port then all that
advanced technology is most likely going
to be useless. So, we're going to start
with the physical security first. And by
physical security, I mean, if you want
to protect access to your network, then
by all means, lock the access to your
switches and your routers and your
firewalls. Don't let just anyone get
near them and plug their network cables
in there. So, lock your metal cabinets,
lock your your data rooms, your data
centers, whatever you hold those um that
networking equipment. make sure that
nobody else has access in there. Also,
remember to disable unused ports,
especially on switches. You're probably
going to have a 24 port, 48 port
switches, or even higher. Uh you're
probably not going to be using all those
ports. They're most likely going to be a
few ports which remain unused. Now,
those ports by default are probably
going to forward traffic. So if somebody
gains access to that physical switch and
plugs the network cable in there,
they're probably going to get access to
something like VLAN 1, which is not
desirable. So make sure you
administratively shut down or disable
those ports which are not in use. Now,
of course, this is going to add a bit of
admin overhead, right? the moves, adds
changes and it doesn't completely secure
them because if an attacker can reach
your network devices physically, then
nothing stops them from disconnecting an
active link and then plugging his or her
own device in there. Okay? So, it it's
just a a useful measure, an additional
measure, but it doesn't magically solve
everything. Also, don't forget to
protect the cables themselves. Now, I
know this most likely is going to be
really difficult to achieve, but as much
as possible, try to not leave those
cables exposed. Just giving, I don't
know, the guests that are going through
the lobby clear view and clear access to
those network cables because a cable is
nothing else than an extension of a
switchboard. So, if you're securing the
switchboard, but you're not securing the
cable itself, well, somebody with a
malicious intent is not going to find it
too difficult to actually connect to
your network just by cutting that cable,
just by inserting himself in that cable
run. So, again, as I said, disabling
ports doesn't exactly reduce that much
the attack surface of your regular
network wall jacks and other connections
while in your building. So, we need
another way to secure access to those
ports. All right? And that have to
remain active. So we need some ports to
be active but we still need to secure
access against unauthorized devices and
unauthorized users. And we have a couple
of methods here that we can use the
simple methods and the more advanced
methods. Now the simplistic method for
controlling network access is called
port security or MAC filtering. MAC
filtering just like the name says it's
simply about configuring which MAC
addresses are allowed to send traffic on
each switchport. It's I would say
moderately secure because MAC addresses
can be easily spoofed. So I can just
present myself to the switch port by
having a different MAC address than I
currently have potentially impersonating
the actual device which was allowed to
communicate on that port and also adds a
lot of administrative overhead because
all those MAC address entries have to be
kept up to date. Now there are methods
here and uh and they're implemented by
all major networking vendors which help
us determine those MAC addresses. Uh so
we don't have to actually configure each
and every one of them manually. In most
cases, this is obtained by configuring
the switch port to remember the first
MAC address that it sees on that port.
So when you know that you're just
configuring your network and you're just
configuring uh your workstations, maybe
your IP phones, uh your uh wireless
access points, whatever you have in the
office, you probably know that it it is
a pretty controlled environment. So
whatever you plug in there, it's the
valid device. So you can just tell the
switch whatever you're going to see as
the first type of traffic that goes
through that port, remember that that is
a valid source MAC address. remember
that one and don't accept traffic from
any other MAC address other than the
first one you've seen on that port. Now,
just to give you a short example here
from the Cisco official command
reference, uh, under the port security
chapter command list, if we scroll down
here just a bit, we're going to find the
the command that actually enables port
security on the switch, which is
switchport port security, and then
followed by switchboard port security
address, which allows us to configure a
specific MAC address to be allowed on
that port. Or we can just configure it
with the sticky parameter, as you can
see here at the bottom. switch port
security MAC address sticky enable
sticky port security doesn't exactly
explain what it does but you you can
read the uh the official explanation
right here sticky basically means what
we just said before remember the first
address that you see on that port now of
course we can also add a number of MAC
addresses so for example if we want to
allow an IP phone and a desktop PC on
the same port then we're going to allow
the first two MAC addresses that are
being seen on that port as uh as
legitimate MAC addresses And by the way,
MAC filtering is is not a rocket science
technology. So, you're not going to find
it just on enterprise switches. Uh you
can also find it on home routers, home
Wi-Fi routers. Uh like my ASUS router
right here. Uh under the wireless MAC
filter, I can enable this MAC filter
right here. I'm going to say that I'm
going to accept only the MAC addresses
that are found within this list. All
right. So, I can just choose one of the
active clients here. So, for example, if
I if I know that my uh this is this one
right here is my Alexa, which I know
it's always in my home listening right
here. I should add this one right here
by its MAC address. So, I know it's
always going to be allowed inside my
Wi-Fi network. I can do the same with my
my laptops, my mobile phones, and
whatever I have in my home. But of
course, this is probably not going to uh
be very um friendly with any guest with
any guests that you might invite to your
home. Nevertheless, wireless MAC filter
or Mac filtering in general, it's not a
uh it's not a technology available just
to enterprise uh devices. All right, so
that was the simple method. What's the
more advanced one? Well, the more
advanced one is called network access
control or network access protection or
an implementation of the 802.1x
protocol. This protocol is meant to
provide authentication for both users as
well as devices. So under the standard
802.1x which is called port-based
authentication or portbased knack means
that the device you're connecting to the
switch or the access point is going to
ask your device or you as a user for
some authentication credentials before
allowing you to send traffic on that
port. And we're going to introduce a
couple of entities in here. First of
all, we're going to have the supplicant
which is going to be you, the one that
it's trying to get access to the
network. And then we're going to have
the authenticator which is going to be
the network access device which can be a
switch wireless access point uh VPN
endpoint whatever and the authentication
server which is going to be the server
that actually processes your
authentication credentials validates
them sees whether uh you are a valid
user you're presenting a valid set of
authentication credentials and if you
should or should not get access to the
network. Actually let's let's see this
in a in a graphical manner so we can
understand this better. But before we go
to the drawing board, there's one more
concept here that's really useful for
you to know and that is the EAP over LAN
protocol. Now EAP as you probably know
stands for extensible authentication
protocol. So it's going to allow a
number of authentication methods uh
between you and that switch or that
network access device uh that you're
trying to use to get access to the rest
of the network. And by default, the
802.1x protocol is going to accept only
EAP traffic between you and that
authentication device simply because
that's the only traffic that should be
allowed. Only authentication traffic
should be allowed before gaining access
to the rest of the networks. You're not
going to be allowed to send any kind of,
I don't know, web traffic, email
traffic, peer-to-peer traffic over that
port. you're only going to be allowed
EAP packets as well as some uh some
management traffic I believe uh like
some ICMP codes STP span protocol and
such but uh CDP if I'm not mistaken
Cisco discovery protocol but that's
beyond this uh the scope all right so
let's go to the drawing board okay so
for 802.1x authentication we have three
entities here that have to interact in
order for us to get access to a network
so we're going to start with uh stick
figure on the left uh which is me or you
the user attempting to connect to the
network or to be more precise the device
that the user tries to connect to the
network and um we're not going to call
it user or device but we're going to
call it supplicant
right supplicant because this one is the
entity that supplies the authentication
credentials right now this user or this
device attempts to connect to the
network through an intermediary device
which may be a switch, an access point,
maybe a remote access VPN concentrator.
Nevertheless, we're going to have
another device here in the middle. Let's
say this is an access switch. And this
switch right here, again, we're not
going to call it switch, but we're going
to call it authenticator.
Now finally the third entity that we
have here on the right is going to be a
radius server
which is the entity that is actually
going to validate the credentials
supplied by the supplicant
sent through the authenticator and then
validated on the radius server and the
radius server we can also call it a AAA
server if you wish but in 802.1x
this is going to be called an
authentication server right so make sure
you Don't confuse these two, the
authenticator and the authentication
server. They're two completely different
entities. Now, these three are going to
exchange some messages.
Now, what's going to happen next is of
course the supplicant completely
oblivious to this setup is going to
attempt to send some traffic. Let's say
it's probably going to be HTTP, right?
It's going to try to access the web, but
the authenticator
is going to say, uh, denied. I'm not
accepting that traffic just yet. But
what I am going to accept is EAP
overland traffic. Are you able to send
me EAP overland traffic or not? Now if
the supplicant understands
what this type of authentication is all
about, then it's going to reply back to
the authenticator with some valid
credentials over the EAP protocol. This
time it's going to also send the
credentials in here. All right. Now, the
authenticator doesn't know if this set
of credentials is valid or not. The
switch inside of our network, the access
switch has no way of knowing about all
the user accounts, all the machine
accounts in your network. So, it's going
to forward this request towards the
authentication server, the AAA server,
our radius server. And of course,
between these two, the protocol that
we're going to be using is going to be
the radius protocol. And of course the
credentials are going to be encapsulated
here as well encrypted so that the AAA
server is going to be able to validate
them against an uh let's say an active
directory database an LDAP database any
kind of user database that is
centralized and that the radius server
has access to. Now after the credentials
are validated of course the AAA server
is going to reply back to the
authenticator or to the switch also
using a radius protocol
but it's going to say whether the
supplicant is allowed or not. If the
credentials presented were valid or not.
Now if the credentials presented were
valid then the authenticator is going to
inform the supplicant and it's going to
tell them that authentication was okay
and it's going to tell them that
authentication was okay. All right. So
all the traffic now is permitted which
means that a specific port on the switch
on which the supplicant was connected to
is now configured with a customized
access list according to the result of
the authentication process. So if the
authentication process was valid, the
user was recognized as being part of the
uh let's say uh the marketing VLAN then
the port is automatically going to be
configured with the proper VLAN with the
proper access list according to the
security policy adequate for that
specific user which just tried to
authenticate. So now when the user tries
to send their HTTP traffic the result is
going to be that the switch is now going
to accept this kind of traffic and it's
going to forward it to its proper
destination. Now of course the
alternative to this would be if the
credentials which were provided were not
valid then the switch port would be
configured to block further traffic from
the supplicant. Now, it depends on how
you choose to actually administer this
type of security solution because you
might want to allow that supplicant uh
additional attempts. Okay, maybe you
just mistyped your password. I'm not
going to completely block all the
traffic on that port. I'm still going to
allow uh EAP overland traffic so you can
try again. Or maybe you can implement
some sort of a backoff mechanism so that
they're not going to try to brute force
uh their access into your network. Also
one thing to mention here when I say
credentials it's not just limited to
username and password we're basically uh
talking about EAP right here right EAP
overland and EAP is extensible
authentication protocol which means that
it's a wrapper uh it's a way to
encapsulate a huge number of
authentication methods uh ranging from
usernames and passwords uh multiffactor
authentication uh certificates even uh I
don't know uh there's a type of
authentication called SIM AAP, which
uses the SIM card in your phone uh to
authenticate onto a uh let's say a
public wireless network inside of a mall
or a stadium. Uh so that's that's also a
type of authentication. So it's not just
limited to uh simple username and
password. Okay. So we have a pretty
complex authentication flow and we're
only using it to present and to validate
credentials. The good news is that we
can also use this flow to implement some
more complex security policies as well.
So we can perform some additional checks
not just those credentials that are
presented by the user. Now for example,
additionally from checking a valid
username with a password or a
certificate uh allowing access might
also require a health check of the
device that is trying to gain access to
the network. uh we can look for
information that indicates whether it's
our device or not. Is it a company
device or not or a personal one? Or we
could be looking at the current level of
OS, the operating system patches and
updates. Are you using an up-to-date
operating system to connect to our
network? Or are you using an operating
system that hasn't been updated in six
months or one year and that could
present significant risk if we allow you
access inside of the company network. Uh
we can also look at um updates for for
business applications right for the
Microsoft Office suit for example or any
other type of applications that are
supposed to be um to be used by the by
the employees on that uh specific
device. And if you're wondering well how
can we get this information if we don't
allow the the device to connect to the
network from the very beginning? Well,
you guessed it. We're going to rely on
some kind of an agent that runs on that
workstation and is able to report back
to our central uh decision maker inside
of our network uh the current status or
the posture of that device. And this is
why we also find the term of posture
validation when we perform these
additional checks. We can also be using
for antivirus. Do you have an antivirus?
Do you have an antivirus that is um
allowed by our our company and does it
have an up-to-date signature database?
Uh we could be looking at group
membership. Which ad group do you belong
to or to which subnet you're supposed to
connect to? Do you have access to a
specific subnet or not? Maybe I don't
know for example we don't want to allow
access uh to our view through our VPN
endpoints to devices that are not owned
by the company. We could also be looking
at the location. Where are you
connecting from? And we have a number of
decision points here. We could be
looking at the actual network type that
you're using. Is it a publicly available
unsecure network, Starbucks, McDonald's
type of network that you're you're
currently connected to? We might not
want to allow such devices to reach our
internal network. uh we could be looking
at the goip database and try to figure
out which country are you currently in
and you're trying to connect back to our
network and we could also be looking
especially for mobile devices we could
be looking at the GPS position as well
but uh but that's not something you can
find implemented very often. It's most
likely going to be uh restricted to the
network type and the goip database. We
could be looking at the time of day as
well. Are you supposed to be connecting
at 2:00 a.m.? Well, perhaps you are
allowed to connect at 2:00 a.m., but if
we correlate the connection at 2:00 a.m.
with the fact that let's say at at 1:00
a.m. you were connecting from a uh
Russian IP address and at 2 a.m. you're
connecting from an Australian IP
address, then that's probably not going
to be a valid connection attempt.
There's something fishy going on in
there.
uh this type of policy is actually
implemented on a lot of security devices
and it's called impossible travel time.
Now, additionally, after we uh we decide
whether to allow or not a a specific
device access to our network, uh we can
also implement a remediation policy. Of
course, the remediation makes sense if
the device is not fully compliant. So,
well, of course, for devices that
completely failed the assessment, we
could simply deny access and maybe allow
them to try again after a while. But for
devices that have partially failed, for
example, uh they don't have the uh the
latest always patches or updates, we
could choose to place those devices in a
in a quarantine kind of VLAN in a
separate type of network, which most
likely is not going to allow them access
to the internal network, but it is going
to allow them access to the internet so
that they can connect to the internet
and install all the necessary updates,
patches, antivirus, signatures uh
download the latest versions of whatever
they weren't compliant with. So we allow
them a remediation window and we also
place them in some kind of a remediation
uh subnet or remediation VLAN uh where
they can still function, they can still
access the internet to fix their
posture, but they're not going to pose a
risk to our internal network. So kind of
like a a guest network if you wish. Uh
just to give you a short example of a
real life implementation of uh of a
posture validation solution. Uh Cisco
has one implemented inside of the any
connect remote connectivity client. And
you can see here that under the
configure posture section in the
configuration guide. we get the
explanation that uh this this feature
provides the the client with the ability
to assess an endpoint's compliance for
things like antivirus, anti-spyware and
firewall software installed on the host.
So these right here are example of
further checks that we can perform after
the user has been properly validated
with valid username, password,
certificate, whatever method we choose
to use. Then we can move forward and try
to assess the posture the security
posture of the device owned by the user.
If you scroll down here, you can jump to
specific sections like see what exactly
are the posture checks that can be
performed by the AnConnect client. Uh
remediation options as we talked before
with a quarantine VLAN for example. Uh
reassessment of endpoint compliance. How
often or how are we going to allow that
user to retry authentication? And also
reassessment covers the situation when
uh the user has properly authenticated
and has been authenticated for quite
some time. But periodically we might
want to double check and see if that
device which has been connected for 3
days perhaps on the company VPN is still
valid. So let's you know let's let's
just double check it from time to time
and perform another posture validation
just to see if the device is still
compliant. All right. So that's it about
port security 802.1x
knack nap or whatever you want to call
it. Make sure you understand these
concept and you're able to explain them.
Make sure you understand the difference
between the supplicant the authenticator
the authentication service. What are
their roles? Make sure you don't confuse
them. Also, make sure you are able to
provide at least a couple of examples of
more advanced posture validation
methods. All right, so that's it for
today. Until next time when we're going
to be talking about identity and access
management or AM. I wish you good luck
and if you found this useful and
informative, like and subscribe. See you
next time.
[Music]