All
[Music]
right then. So last time we started
talking about software development and
we covered multiple software development
life cycle methodologies and it really
wasn't the most exciting topic. I know
we have to learn this for the exam, but
it doesn't really help us understand how
to code an application in a secure
manner. So that's precisely what we're
going to be talking about today. Also,
apologies for my voice. My sinuses have
decided not to be YouTube friendly
today, but hopefully the content is
still going to be clear. So, thank you.
So let's talk about coding security or
how do we write those applications so
that they are secure and I would like to
start with one idea and this idea is
actually so important because how should
I put this if we manage to fix this one
single thing in every single application
that we develop then 90% of all the
cyber security analysts out there would
suddenly be without a Bob.
And that single idea is called input
validation. And I cannot stress this
enough. This is the number one method,
the number one best practice to get rid
of a lot of vulnerabilities in your code
because a lot of problems appear when
you ask for input from your users. And
if you look over the vulnerability
databases out there, just randomly
search for one vulnerability and you're
going to find in most cases that it's
going to be about a crafted request, a
malformed request, a specific type of
file that is uh is sent to that
application, a specific crafted packet
or malformed I don't know protocol
anomaly that is sent to that application
and that eventually exploits a
vulnerability. So, it's all about
accepting input and not validating it
properly when it comes from your users.
And this is where most vulnerabilities
originate from. And if you're thinking,
all right, I don't have that much input
in my application or I don't have any
input in my application. Well, you do.
Even if you're just serving static
pages, even though probably you won't
call that an application, but even for a
static page, you're going to accept an
HTTP request that's going to be
processed and then it's going to return
a specific static page. Well, that HTTP
request is a kind of input. If you allow
users to submit comments on a on a
shopping website, for example, that's
going to be input. If you allow users to
configure their profiles and upload
their profile pictures or their resumes,
for example, on a website, that's going
to be input. That's going to be a
vulnerability that can be potentially
exploited. Now, there are a lot of
places online where you can find
documentation about what you should be
looking for when you plan to do input
validation. And this is actually because
it's such a wide topic that it's
basically impossible to cover in one
single place especially because it it
applies in a different manner to web
application in another manner to mobile
applications in another way to I don't
know server side applications for
example it depends so much on the type
of application and the type of input
that you're expecting but it all boils
down to deciding what type of input you
expect to receive from your users and
then making absolutely sure that the
input that you're receiving is
thoroughly checked and validated just to
make sure that you're receiving what you
expect to receive and not something
else, not something bigger. Uh not
something executable when it should be a
picture or that it's not an office
document with a macro that it's not a
number instead of a string. OS points
for us a couple of things to keep in
mind. For example, we first have
syntactic validation which ensures that
we're actually looking at something that
is supposed to be looking as a date, as
an age or as an address or a social
security number or passport number or
something like that. Semantic validation
means that we need to enforce the
correctness of their values in their
specific context. That is abnormal dates
or abnormal quantities for a product or
negative quantities for a product. Uh
they're discussing here multiple ways of
validating based on allow lists or block
lists. Most of the cases you're going to
want to rely on allow lists because it's
much easier to specify what exactly is
valid for your context rather than
trying to define everything that isn't
valid. Regular expressions, for example,
are very used for situations where you
know exactly how the input should look
like or at least how it should be
structured. They talk about sanitizing
HTML, verifying every file that gets
uploaded by your users and it's so much
to cover simply because most
applications have multiple points of
entries. They have multiple interfaces
with the outside world that accept input
from your users and it's very important
to decide what are all the potential
inputs to your application. Yeah, you
can have users uh submitting HTTP
requests, uploading files, submitting
forms, but you can also have a
third-party connection with a storage
cloud service, for example, that you're
thinking that you're only using that
interface to communicate with the cloud
service, but can you be 100% sure that
an attacker is not going to be able to
craft a request and send it through that
same interface as well? And speaking
about crafting requests, never,
absolutely never input validate on the
client side. That is, don't use the
client application or the client's
browser to make the necessary checks in
order to make sure that the data that
you're receiving from the user is valid
and doesn't contain any malicious code.
Kind of obvious why we do this, right?
Because every check that we expect to do
on the client side can be easily
circumvented by an attacker. Let's say
for example that we have an online store
and we're running a promotion. We only
want to let users order one single item
of a specific category. Well, if you
make this check on the browser side,
well, the normal user is going to see
that when they try to add the second
item, they're going to get an error and
the number comes back to one. But an
attacker can also craft the same request
that your browser is supposed to be
sending and can change that request to
say a 100 items, a million items. If you
don't make any checks on the server side
when the request comes in to your
e-commerce application, you're going to
end up with an order of 1 million items,
which is most likely something you don't
want. So basically, we're never
validating on the client side because a
potential attacker has the option of
choosing their own client to build those
requests and circumvent any checks that
we might have in place. So for web forms
at least, you're going to have to make
sure that you're checking uh the data
type that you're receiving. Like the
person's name only includes letters, a
date is between a minimum and a maximum.
So for every piece of information that
you receive from the client, you should
check on the server side if it falls
within a predefined uh numerical range.
For example, for an age, for a quantity,
make sure you don't get huge numbers.
Make sure you don't get negative values.
uh when users upload files, make sure
that you're not receiving again huge
files and also check the files to make
sure that they're actually uh the valid
types that you're expecting, right? That
the profile picture is a JPEG or a PNG
file and the and I don't know a resume
is a PDF file and not something else.
And as mentioned before, it's much
easier to have a whitelist approach to
this types of checking because it's much
easier to decide, well, this is exactly
what I expect to receive in this field
right here rather than thinking about
all the potential junk that your users
might try to submit or to upload to your
web application. As mentioned, input
validation can be as simple as
validating the HTTP requests that your
users are sending. So for example, in
this simple HTTP request here, let's
assume that I have a website that stores
some user profiles. And if I'm logged in
as Andre as my name here, then I should
be able to access using a specific query
like this uh my own profile picture. Now
an improperly coded application might
allow me to actually try to generate
some other valid URLs like this. So, for
example, if I change the file name to
something something that's Robert's
profile picture here, and I shouldn't be
able to access that information, well,
the application should validate its
request and deny me access to some other
users's profile information. This would
be most likely a way of circumventing
authentication and a proof of broken
authentication in our app. Now going one
step further, instead of just specifying
the file that I want to access, I could
try navigating the file system on the
web server and I could try accessing
some files I should have no business
accessing. This one is called directory
traversal. So it's the ability of the
user to actually navigate through the
file system of the web server in order
to access different types of
information. I can think about doing
even more. I mean if directory traversal
works then I should be able to breach
any location on the web server as well
as long as the web server application
that's hosting the the web application
is actually has enough privileges to
access those locations and to open
specific files. So, for example, I can
actually read something like XT
password, which doesn't really store
passwords as you probably know, but it
does give me a listing of all the users
and their privileges on that specific uh
web server, which is a great first step
in reconnaissance and preparing to break
into that web server. And by now you're
probably thinking, well, this directory
traversal vulnerability is easily
mitigated simply by not accepting dots
and slashes in the path that specifies
the profile picture, right? Well, what
if I do this? This one is called HTML
encoding. As you can probably guess,
percent 2e is going to be interpreted as
a dot and percent 2F is going to be
interpreted as a slash. Now your fancy
regular expression which just looks for
dots and slashes has suddenly been
defeated. Right? This string right here
is going to be interpreted correctly by
the web browser but it doesn't match
your input validation method. So careful
about this one as well. Think about all
the possible ways in which the
characters or the input that comes from
your users can be encoded. Think about
the fact that users might submit their
content in an encrypted format or using
B 64 encoding or any other type of
encoding out there that it's not going
to be detected by your basic input
validation tools but might be properly
processed and perhaps even executed by
the web application. Well, if we have to
be careful about input, we should also
be careful about output. And
applications will generate output. They
will present back information to the
user. Well, if that information includes
some piece of code, for example,
JavaScript code that gets executed by
the user's browser and that code is
malicious, well, we have a problem. We
have a vulnerability. Well, malicious
output, of course, doesn't just
magically appear. Most likely, you're
going to have malicious output if you
failed to properly sanitize or validate
the input. So at some point some
malicious user, some attacker was able
to inject that code and manage to bypass
your input validation procedures so that
when another users comes in and accesses
your website, they're going to be
presented with that malicious code. And
of course, the code is going to infect
their browsers or their systems. And
this is one of the methods for
mitigating cross-ite scripting. Now,
we're going to talk about cross-ite
scripting in a future video, but just to
keep things short, uh imagine you have a
uh let's say a commercial website, an
online store, and you let your users
submit comments on your products. Right
now, the comments should normally be
just a couple of English sentences. But
let's say that an attacker includes not
only a couple of English sentences, but
also a piece of malicious JavaScript
code in their comment. Now that
JavaScript code if it's not properly
sanitized is going to be stored in the
database along with the main comment. So
when another user comes in and tries to
access the list of comments for that
specific product, well the database is
going to return the entire list of
comments and one specific comment is
going to have a couple of English
sentences and also a piece of malicious
JavaScript code which the user is not
going to see because the JavaScript code
is supposed to be seen only by the
browser and executed by the browser. And
when the browser gets that code along
with a comment sees oh that this is some
dynamic piece of code that I need to
execute on this web page goes ahead and
executes that code without providing any
feedback to the user. And if that
malicious code for example downloads
some additional uh malware or steals
some personal data, steals some cookies
and login credentials or anything else.
This can happen without the user knowing
about it at all. So this is the
definition actually of a stored
cross-sight scripting attack. And one
way we can avoid this is to make sure
that when we are displaying that
information back to the user, when we're
rendering the page, we're not processing
any dynamic code that we find within
those comment sections. So if we find
some JavaScript code in there, we're
going to escape those special characters
so that the browser is not going to
recognize those script tags in there and
it's not going to try to execute them.
they're simply going to display the code
just like a regular regular comment. So,
one way of explaining this is to make
sure that whenever you're outputting
some information back to the user, you
remove or you scan and parse that code
to remove anything that can be
potentially executed by the client
application. Now, communication security
is kind of obvious, right? If the
application uh transfers some sort of
data or accepts some sort of data from
the users, well, of course, we're going
to want to secure that data when it is
moving or another way of saying this is
secure data in transit. How do we do
this? Well, in most cases, especially
for web applications, but also for
mobile applications nowadays as well,
we're going to use TLS, which is the
evolution of SSL. Sometimes you're going
to see it referenced as SSL, but it's
not SSL anymore. Hasn't been for a
couple of years. So it's basically now
TLS which was the old SSL. Now TLS
relies on public key cryptography which
allows us not only to ensure that the
data can be encrypted so it cannot be uh
sniffed or intercepted while in transit
but also allows us to authenticate the
integrity of the data as well as the
identity of the entities that are
communicating. So I can authenticate
myself to the web server and the web
server can authenticate itself to me so
that I'm sure I'm actually talking to
the right entity and not to an attacker
who pretends to be that web server. So
TLS brings us a lot of benefits in one
package. And one way TLS does this and
actually one way that uh public key
cryptography can be easily implemented
nowadays is by using certificates
digital certificates. Now, if you're
using TLS with your websites, then your
website is actually going to be accessed
through the HTTPS protocol. So, you're
going to see an HTTPS col before your
website address. Ideally, the
certificate is going to be valid. It's
going to be uh recognized by a public
CA. And also make sure on a coding site
that your application never falls back
to pure HTTP. So, make sure that a user
cannot choose to start using HTTP
instead of HTTPS. Not even for small
pieces of information like cookies or
JavaScript or CSS files. There's
actually a specific type of attack
technique called protocol downgrade
which especially for security protocols
like HTTPS relies on the fact that some
implementations or some applications
allow you to choose the security
protocol or even to choose a protocol
that doesn't implement security at all.
So, make sure you don't allow your users
to fall back to an unsecure version of
communication. And even if you don't
allow users to fall back to HTTP, make
sure you also specify exactly which uh
encryption algorithms and which key
lengths are going to be accepted when
communicating over HTTPS. Because
protocol downgrade can also rely on the
fact that the server allows clients to
negotiate those security parameters. And
an attacker might attempt to first
negotiate the lowest possible security
protocol acceptable by the web server
because that lowest one is probably
going to be the easiest one to crack or
at least to to run some cryp analysis on
it. Session management is another point
of interest for developing especially
web applications. What exactly is a
session? Well, the session is actually a
random number, random ID that is
assigned to you and also stored on the
server the first time you communicate
with that server and also probably the
first time you authenticate with that
server. The purpose of the session is
that whenever you're sending some
subsequent requests to the same web
server, you're going to include that
single session ID in all your future
requests. Well, when web server sees
that session ID in your request, then
the web server is going to know that all
these requests come from the same
person. So, it's able to store state
information about yourself. It's going
to store your uh let's say navigation
history, maybe your shopping cart and
everything else that pertains to your
specific identity when navigating that
website. So, on the coding side, the
problem actually is how do you generate
those session IDs? Ideally, they should
be generated on a trusted system
separate from your web application and
you should be using some good algorithms
to generate those session IDs so that
they cannot be guessed by some other
user or god forbid that they're not
sequential because the session ID you
have to treat it actually as a password.
Think of it as a password because if
somebody else knows your session ID,
then any requests that that person or
that attacker is going to send using
your session ID are going to be
processed by the web server as if
they're coming from you. So basically,
stealing a session ID is kind of like
impersonating someone when accessing a
web application. I probably don't have
to add that session IDs should not be
visible. So they shouldn't be included
in the URL at any point. They shouldn't
be visible in the profile page. All
right? And I stress this again, don't
make them guessable. Don't make them
easy to guess. A lot of people when
they're just starting to develop web
applications are going to think about,
well, what's an easy way to generate a
unique value every single time I
generate a new session ID? Well, I'm
going to use the time stamp, the current
second or the current millisecond. Well,
that's a value that can be easily
guessed by an attacker, right? If that
value is guessed by an attacker, then
the attacker can send requests on your
behalf and basically impersonate you. Of
course, sessions should expire. You
probably see this on all websites. If
you don't send any requests for a
specific length of time, you're going to
be kicked out and you have to
reauthenticate. Sessions should expire
because the longer a session is valid,
the higher the risk of that session ID
being compromised and used sometime in
the future by a malicious attacker. Also
a good practice would be to try to use
different session ids for different
level of privileges. So once you might
be authenticated as a normal user, you
get a session ID but the moment you
escalate that privilege, if you
authenticate yourself as an admin user
or is a root user for that specific web
application, a new session ID should be
generated because you're basically a
different person now with a different
set of permissions, different set of
privileges. And especially if you're
using privileged accounts, think about
periodically expiring those sessions.
Even if you are receiving active input
from the user because especially for
very long sessions, if you need to have
a long session in there, if you generate
the session for 8 hours, can you be 100%
sure that during those 8 hours that
admin hasn't left the the desk and
somebody else hasn't start using that
machine in the meantime. So periodically
try to expire sessions and ask the user
to reauthenticate just to revalidate
that they're still who they claim to be.
Don't forget to implement a logout
function from your application even if
90% of users don't use it. But make sure
it is properly implemented as in it
completely invalidates all the session
information. So it deletes everything
related to active sessions. That's
basically what the logout function does
every single time. It deletes the
session information from the server.
Think about if you want to allow users
to have multiple simultaneous sessions
to your web application at the same
time. How do you manage sessions in that
situation or would you rather invalidate
the old session every single time a new
user logs in on a new machine? Well,
think about that depending on your
security requirements. And when it comes
to securing session information, most
web applications are going to rely on
HTTP cookies for this type of
information. And we have a couple of
flags or attributes. two of them being
secure and HTTP only which help us with
protecting the information in those
cookies. Now what they do and this is
actually important for the exam as well.
Most likely you're going to be asked
about this. Well the secure attribute is
sent to the server only with an
encrypted request over the HTTPS
protocol which means that the cookie is
going to travel over an encrypted
channel which is ideal right make sure
you don't send any other piece of
information outside HTTPS. If you use
HTTPS, try to send all the information
through that encrypted tunnel. Now, on
the other hand, the HTTP only attribute
makes that cookie inaccessible to any
JavaScript code, specifically the
document.cookie property, which means
that the only way of accessing that
cookie is to use it in an HTTP request
that goes to the proper server. So a
malicious JavaScript code that might be
injected in the web page cannot read
that cookie information and cannot
transmit it to a potential attacker that
could impersonate you. Now when it comes
to authentication and authentication is
basically the process of proving who you
are. Obviously you should use
authentication for any access to any
resource that needs to be protected. So
if a user tries to access some piece of
information that is located in some
place where only authenticated users
should have access well then make sure
that user is properly authenticated
before you know granting access to that
specific resource or file or or database
entry. Don't forget about MFA which is
multiffactor authentication or
two-factor authentication depending on
how many factors you have. uh make sure
that you implement it in your
applications because this is a great way
to properly secure your login
credentials. With MFA, if your username
and your password get compromised, an
attacker still cannot gain access to the
system because they're also going to
need the second factor. The second
factor can be a biometric
authentication. Uh can be something you
have like a token generator, which can
also be just an application on your
smartphone. The idea is that the
attacker has to have two pieces of
information. something that you have,
something that you know or something
that you are in order to gain access.
Compromising just one single of these
factors is not going to be enough to
provide access to the application. From
a security perspective, try to have the
authentication system and the place
where you store the users, their
credentials and everything else related
to authentication on a separate system
so that it's not going to be exposed in
case a vulnerability in your web
application gets exploited. Fail
gracefully sounds cute, right? actually
means that in case the user doesn't get
authenticated or the user receives an
error while trying to authenticate, make
sure that you're not providing too much
information to that user. So, for
example, if the uh if the user is
correct but the password is wrong, don't
tell this to the user. Don't let him or
her know that they managed to input a
correct username and they just mistyped
a password because this is going to help
someone who's trying to break into your
system and say, "Oh, look at that. So I
managed to find a valid username. Let's
just focus on the password now. And also
don't forget to detect failed login
attempts. Too many failed loginins from
the same user from the same IP address
using the same session ID even uh should
have some sort of consequence which can
be as simple as implementing a backup
algorithm. Like if you try to input your
PIN in your smartphone multiple times in
a row, you make multiple mistakes, then
you're going to see that the the phone
actually forces you to wait a couple of
seconds first and a couple of minutes
later before you can try again. This
backup behavior is basically there to
avoid brute force attempts where a huge
number of passwords or the or
combinations is is attempted in a short
time frame. Don't forget about external
systems. Your application might use
additional uh databases, external
databases or email services or cloud
storage or even other cloud resources.
Access to those systems also has to be
authenticated. So don't accept
unauthenticated requests on any external
interface that your application might
have. What about storing credentials?
Well, you have to allow users to create
a profile and then set a password. So
you'll have to store that password
somehow. Never ever store the password
in clear text. And don't even store it
in an encrypted format. Actually, don't
even store it in a way that can be
reversed. So whenever you store the
password information, store it as a
hash, a one-way hash. You'll never be
able to guess the password from the
hash. Just in case an attacker manages
to obtain access to your profile
database that stores those hashes,
they're still not going to be able to
retrieve their passwords. So, always use
something like a securing hash
algorithm, Shaw, Shaw 256, or any strong
hashing algorithm that doesn't allow a
potential attacker to deduce the
original password from the hash.
Actually, don't even send the passwords
in clear text, right? Send them over
encrypted connections or even better,
just send the hashes to compare the
hashes and validate the user identity.
But don't forget, always authenticate
over encrypted connections. If you want
to allow users to reset their own
passwords and you want to use security
questions, make sure that the
information that you require to unlock
the password reset page doesn't rely on
some publicly available information on
the internet. So don't ask them for the
name of their pets or the name of their
wives or anything like that which can be
easily extracted from social media. If
you want to ask your users to update
their passwords from time to time, make
sure you implement also some password
policies in there especially password
complexity and also try to implement
password history and remember password
history as well for the exam because
it's a very strong topic in uh in CMTA
exams every single time. Password
history basically says that you're not
allowed to reuse any of your ex previous
passwords that you've had before on the
same application on the same website on
the same system. Again, to implement
this, you don't actually have to store
those previous passwords, just their
hashes. It's very useful if possible to
report to the user when they first log
in to your application when was the last
detected login on their user account.
This might indicate to the user that
somebody has stolen their account or
compromised their credentials. Also, you
can implement something like how many
locations are currently logged in to the
same user account. This can be easily
done by counting how many session IDs
have been generated for that specific
user on the server side. If you can try
to also tell your users when was the
last time they were detected as being
logged in. It's not the best method, but
it's going to help provide some
confidence that nobody else has been
using that account in the meantime. And
I'm positive that I don't have to insist
on this. But I'm just going to mention
here uh don't rely on default
credentials and remove or replace those
default user accounts that come
preconfigured from the factory, from the
manufacturer, from the vendor. Another
idea here is that whenever a user tries
to execute a privileged operation, try
to reauthenticate that user every single
time a privileged operation is
requested. For example, think about
websites that ask you to provide your
current password before allowing you to
change it to change your password.
Right? That's also a way to
reauthenticate the user just to make
sure that right now at that very moment
the right user is performing the
operation and not some attacker. And
like always, whenever you're reusing
software or libraries or source code
that you can find online or you can
import that into your project, make sure
that the third-party software that you
decide to use matches the requirements
of your authentication system. So it's
not going to act as a backdoor or a way
to circumvent or to avoid your
authentication system that you have in
place. And now about authorization and
access control. Now, authorization
usually comes after authentication. And
the main difference is that while
authentication's purpose is to for you
to prove who you are, well,
authorization on the other hand is
deciding what privileges you have after
you've proven your identity. So, first I
prove that I am Andrew and then as part
of the authorization process, I receive
a set of privileges that allow me read,
write, execute operations on different
objects or network entities and so on.
So every single time you have a user
that's about to perform a specific type
of operation, always check in your code
that the operation can be and should be
performed by that specific user. That
the user is authorized to perform that
specific action. And this also applies
to machineto-achine communication. You
might have two different applications
that communicate to each other using an
API. Well, that API is going to support
some specific operations. you might not
want to expose all the operations like a
root level access to your application to
another third party app. So make sure
you first authenticate of course any API
access but you also authorize any
request that comes in and have your code
check it whether it should be allowed or
not. Just like with authentication, the
authorization system and all the
permissions should be stored someplace
else not on the same place as your main
application just to be safe in case uh a
user manages to exploit your application
so that they won't have the chance to
access the I know the privileges table
for example and then escalate their own
privileges and create users and so on.
So keep these systems as separate as
possible and again just like with
authentication fail securely with
authorization as well. So if a user
tries to perform an operation and
they're not allowed, simply inform them
that they are not allowed. That's it.
Don't give them any other information
regarding their current privileges or
what privileges or would be required to
execute that operation and so on. Try to
keep it to a minimum. And this also
applies to machine toachine
communication, right? You're going to
have error messages generated by APIs as
well. So make sure you don't expose too
much of of your internal infrastructure
and your internal authorization and
authentication system to the outside
world. Nobody needs to know how you
manage your users, what kind of
permissions you have defined in your
system, right? Keep it inhouse. And
another situation where you have to plan
for failure, right, in authorization is
what happens if the authorization system
doesn't answer, doesn't respond, so it's
unavailable. What do you do then? Well,
most likely you're not going to just
allow everyone to do whatever they want.
You're probably going to fall back to a
uh restricted set of users with some
locally defined permissions on that
machine. So, be careful about this. Be
make sure that your users don't suddenly
become privileged whenever the
authentication system fails. In web
applications, authorization also refers
to any attempt of a user to access a
specific web resource like a file, an
image, an database entry, anything that
can be accessed through an HTTP request.
Make sure that you're not allowing users
to directly access protected resources.
So, a user might just know where is a
specific protected resource located.
Like let's say they might know where
exactly on the payroll server is the
salary table located the salary excel
file located when when somebody tries to
access that location well that request
has to be authorized who are you do you
have permission to access that folder do
you have read permission up to that
specific file and is there an access
list in there that allows you or denies
access for for yourself now hiding
resources and just assuming that users
are not going to discover them unless
they're authenticated. That's a way of
implementing security by obscurity and
we don't want to do that. That that is
not security by any means. The number
and frequency of the operations has also
to be taken into account because we
don't we're not only facing exploitation
attacks but we're also facing denial of
service attacks. Right? So you might
have a filter in there that checks every
operation and if you're not authorized
then you're going to just receive an
error. All right, that works just fine.
But what if 1 million requests come in
every single second? Well, you're going
to try to generate 1 million errors,
perform 1 million checks, but that's
most likely going to crash your
authentication system. So make sure that
as part of the authorization system and
access control, you're also limiting the
rate at which you are accepting for
validation requests that are coming in
from your users. Now, of course, a very
basic one is if you don't need an
account anymore, if nobody uses it
anymore, even if it's a machine account,
it might be a service account that was
previously used by some thirdparty
application, retire that account.
Doesn't necessarily mean delete it
completely, but most operating systems
allow you to disable a specific account.
So that in the future if somebody
realizes that I don't know there were
some encrypted files that were protected
by that specific account well you can
simply reenable that old account and
decrypt that that content. But still
don't forget to retire unused accounts.
And of course something that's most
likely the first thing we should have
mentioned on this slide is the principle
of least privilege. Don't give an
entity, a user, a machine, an
application, a service, anything. Don't
give them more permissions than they
actually require to do their job because
all you're doing is just exposing
yourself to more and more risk. Now, as
part of a low-level coding discussion,
of course, this is going to be a lot to
discuss here. And since this is not a
programming training, I'm just going to
mention two of these here. Try avoiding
direct system calls. So, don't use the
system calls of the operating system.
Try using APIs because APIs are going to
filter a lot of the let's say unwanted
calls or a lot of the illegal use of
those system calls. They're going to try
to normalize and sanitize that input. So
it's going to be another layer of input
validation for your own code. Another
one is of course try to avoid as much as
possible race conditions. Now race
condition is also a programming bug or
programming mistake but can also be
exploited by an attack. Race condition
basically means that two processes, two
entities attempt to access the same
resource at the same time and at least
one of them also attempts to change that
resource. Now the problem and why it's
called a race condition is that it's
almost next to impossible or it's very
hard to predict what the end outcome is
going to be when those operations happen
at the same time. So it's basically a
sort of timing bug in your code. Now in
order to avoid this locking mechanism
has to be in place in which the moment
you try to access a resource you also
put a lock on that resource and only a
single process single user single
application single anything entity can
access read or change that resource. Now
after the operation has finished of
course the lock is released and the
resource can be used by somebody else.
And although this is not part of the
software development process, we still
have to think about where is our code
going to run on which server, platform,
operating system, cloud environment,
local environments, users phone, and so
on. And from a security perspective,
well, we've talked about this before,
but we're going to have to focus on, you
know, patching, keeping that platform
updated, the operating system up to
date, all the things that we know that
we were supposed to do in order to keep
that attack surface minimal. And keep in
mind that if you're running a web
application on a web server on an
operating system, then you actually have
three platforms, three types of attack
surfaces that you have to defend. One is
your application. That's going to be
your application code where you have to
protect yourself against, you know,
buffer overflows, injections, and so on.
Secondly, you have the web server
itself, which is an standalone
application, which is probably not under
your control, but you still have to keep
it up to date and monitored for
vulnerabilities. And third, you have the
entire operating system that hosts
everything in there, which also has to
be updated with the latest security
patches and a proper security oriented
configuration so that a potential
attacker cannot break your code, your
web server or the operating system
that's hosting it all. Also, don't
forget that a web server is just another
type of application that's running on an
operating system. If that web server is
running your web application, then the
web application is going to run with the
same privileges on that system as the
web server. So in case somebody manages
to break the code of your application,
perform some code injection, well that
code is going to be executed with
whatever permissions the web server has
on that machine. I've seen several
situations where people are just lazy
enough so that you know to avoid any
conflicts or errors, they simply install
web servers with root privileges. So the
web server actually runs as root which
means that whoever manages to exploit
any web application hosted by that web
server can potentially get root access
on that same machine and that's
extremely dangerous. So make sure that
the application doesn't run with any
system level privileges. So in case
somebody exploits that application
they're not going to be able to do
anything outside that application's
environment. Another one here, pretty
much common sense. Don't store tests,
development, UAT versions of the same
application on the same system, right?
Because those are most likely going to
have, you know, test accounts, test
data. They're probably going to bypass
some authentication procedures and just
in case somebody discovers those on your
system, they're most likely going to be
much easier to exploit than the
production application. Use the robust
txt file for search engines which is
going to prevent the disclosure of your
website structure to any search engines
that might be crawling or spidering your
your application. So also make sure that
all sensitive information is disallowed
in this file. So don't allow Google to
index any sensitive areas in your
application. Also on the chapter of
input validation, but this time from an
a system or infrastructure perspective,
you should also restrict the allowed
HTTP methods that can be sent towards
your applications. You're not going to
accept just any kind of request out
there. You're just going to accept those
requests that you know have meaning and
are useful for your application. Also,
don't accept anything below TLS 1.0. And
also on the server side, the responses
coming in from the web server back to
the user are usually going to include
some information in the HTTP header.
Make sure you inspect that information
so it doesn't disclose something that
you would not want to be disclosed to
your users. For example, make sure that
you are not displaying the actual type
of web server or the version or the
patch level of the web server that
you're using to host that application
because that's a gold mine for an
attacker. and they're going to know
exactly which exploit to use according
to the version that you have running in
there. Well, in most applications,
you're going to have at least a small
database. So again, since we're talking
about data, think about input
validation. So validate the input before
you're storing it in the database and
also output encoding. So how are you
displaying in a safe manner whatever
data was stored in the database? And to
defend ourselves against injection of
foreign code, which in the database
world is probably going to be something
like an SQL injection or SQL injection.
Well, the best thing we can do is to
properly prepare our queries, our
database queries. And we're going to
find these terms in a lot of places. Uh
some people call them parameterized
queries, other call them prepared
statements, some languages call them
pre-ompiled statements. And again, these
are all methods of defending against SQL
injection. Now, we're going to talk
about SQL injection in a future episode,
but for now, just to keep things short,
uh the idea behind these types of
queries or statements is that instead of
just concatenating what the user sends
to the SQL query, the SQL string, we
take the user content and we don't
interpret it in any way. We simply treat
it as text. That way we can avoid the
situations where user input gets to be
treated as SQL or partial SQL
statements. So what these statements do
is that they include placeholders for
these parameters, the parameters that
come from the user side. So when the
query is executed, the application binds
the actual values provided by the users
to these parameters. So all those
special characters that you're going to
find in SQL injection attempts are no
longer interpreted by the SQL server but
are taken literally as pure text. I'm
sure I don't need to mention this here
again but apply these privileged
databases as well because you're storing
data and people should not have access
to all data in the world. Right? One
user should have a set of privileges and
another user should have a different set
of privileges which dictate which type
of data they are allowed to access and
also which type of data they're allowed
to modify. Don't hardcode database
credentials in your application code
because if your application gets
exploited and somebody gets to read the
source code files, you've just given
them access to the database as well. Now
there are solutions out there that help
you securely store such authentication
credentials like Hashi Cororp vault for
example and many many other solutions
out there. Long story short just don't
hardcode usernames and passwords into
your application. Just like with third
party code don't forget about default
databases, default tables, demo data
that might come from the default
installation of the database server.
Don't keep them there because those
tables, those databases might allow some
users to perform some unintended
operations. And the worst part is that
you might even completely forget about
those when you're building your
authentication mechanisms, your
authorization policies. Disable any
additional database system functionality
that might be available by default. Uh
what I mean by this is that some
database engines even allow you to
execute system calls or to run
executables on the same system as the
database. If somebody manages to perform
an SQL injection and to run their own
queries, well those queries might
include a command to be executed on the
database server which leads to privilege
escalation which of course leads to the
server being fully compromised under the
attacker's control. And generally when
you have multiple applications that are
using the the same uh database system
make sure that each application uses
their own database. Firstly because it's
much easier to create security policies
which application has which permissions
on which database and secondly because
you isolate let's say vulnerability
domains. If an attacker manages to crack
an application and gain access to its
database, at least it's not going to
have access to the rest of the data of
the other applications that are running
on the same system. And when we're
talking about pure data information,
files, of course, the first thing that
comes into mind is least privilege. Do I
need to say more about this? No. And the
main idea here is that when you want to
protect data, the first thing that
should come into mind is encryption.
Encrypt it so that nobody can read that
information. And a very big benefit of
encryption is not only the fact that it
hides information, but it also protects
that information from outside tampering.
So somebody else cannot just come in and
change that information without you
knowing about this or without corrupting
it. Because in order to properly change
a file that has been encrypted, you
first have to decrypt it. You have to
have the decryption key in order to
perform those changes and then you have
to use probably the same key or another
key to encrypt it back again. That's
also one of the benefits of encryption,
right? Making your data tamperproof.
Now, the discussion about encryption can
be a very long one, but some things to
keep in mind. For example, choose strong
encryption ciphers as technology
evolves. Older ciphers get easier and
easier to crack. So, always make sure
that you're using something that's
adequate for the present time and
perhaps for the next 5 years. Make sure
you have a process in place for key
management. How do you store those
encryption keys? who has access to them
and how when
uh which type of uh authentication
system you're going to use for somebody
who needs access to such an encryption
key. And for very very critical systems
uh careful with random number generators
because a large part of cryptography
actually relies on generating very large
random numbers and computers are
inherently bad at generating random
numbers simply because everything is
deterministic. But this is another talk
for another time. Careful with caches
and temporary files that your
application might be writing to disk
from time to time, especially if it's
writing that information on the client's
desk. So, for example, it's using the
browser's cache or the mobile phone's
cache to write some temporary files that
are currently in use. Those files can
very easily contain sensitive
information or at least some information
that can be used by a potential attacker
to impersonate you to break into your
account or to perform some operations on
your behalf. So make sure that the
application thoroughly cleans after
itself and you're not storing sensitive
data on the user device. Now if your
application is not open source, make
sure you protect the source code. Also,
if you're a web application, make sure
that users cannot somehow circumvent the
web server and access the source code
files directly. Normal users should not
be able to see the PHP files, the ASP
files that the application is currently
executing, that the web server is
running. They're only supposed to see
the results generated by those files. As
a general rule, of course, don't store
sensitive data in clear text. Actually,
whenever you're moving data, whenever
you're storing data, always protect it.
And coming back to that input validation
idea at the beginning of this video,
always validate whatever input, whatever
data you receive from the users. And
don't allow anything that has a
potential of being executable code to
come in and be processed by your
application. So validate any user files
that come in, anything that user
uploads. Make sure that the file type is
the one that you expect. And don't just
look at the extension because anybody
can change an extension. Look at the
actual binary representation of the
file. look for a specific header that
tells you that that file is uh is either
an image, a document or an executable
file hidden within an image. Also
against code injection attacks, don't
store user data in the same place as the
application data. Actually, don't store
anything that you receive from your
users in the same place as your
application code because you might
receive something very bad from the
users and you don't want to store
malware right next to your application
data. Also on the data protection part,
think about the data that the
application has to access. So for
example, if the application might need
to load some external libraries, some
external files and use them in its
day-to-day operations. Ideally, these
references should be hard-coded and
thoroughly checked. So don't just design
an application that blindly loads any
type of DL file that it finds in a
specific folder, but design it so that
it's looking for a specific type of
file. And ideally, it's also going to
check the hash value of that file to
make sure that the file that's getting
loaded is actually the one expected by
the application. Now, this does require
a lot of additional work on the
programming side. But the advantage is
that this is how you avoid injection of
foreign files into your application
code. And of course, just in case some
user, some uh attack succeeds and an
attacker manages to execute some code in
your own application, then at least make
sure that the application itself doesn't
have right permissions onto its own
files. So the application cannot change
itself, cannot overwrite itself. So it
should only have readonly access to its
own files. And last but not least, we're
protecting data, processes, systems,
application code, and so on. It doesn't
hurt to run a malware scan from time to
time on the server that's hosting your
web app and of course on the server
that's hosting all the user content that
gets uploaded by your users. All right,
this was a long one. We're almost done.
Still need to talk about software
fingerprinting, which is basically just
code signing. That is you publish your
application. You have a compiled
application now ready to be published.
And then you also sign it so that
whoever downloads your application can
validate that all right this application
is coming from a trusted source and was
actually built and signed by a vendor
that I trust. How do you do this? Well,
pretty obviously, right? You're using
digital signatures. And the way a
digital signature actually works is not
that complicated, right? You take the
code, you take the executable code of
the application, you hash it, you
generate a unique hash of that code, you
encrypt that unique hash with your
private key as a developer of the
application. The user that downloads
your application can easily get the
public key usually from a certificate or
can be downloaded in any other manner.
Uses that public key to decrypt that
signature, that hash, and then uses the
hash to compare it with its own
calculation. So it basically hashes the
code by itself. The user hashes the code
and compares it with the hash that was
extracted from the digital signature.
Now if they match then the user can be
sure that nobody else has changed has
tampered with the application from the
moment it was published until the moment
it's reached their hard drive. And also
they can be sure that the application
actually comes from yourself from the
vendor of that application from the
developer of the application because
that's what the public key
infrastructure allows us to validate.
Nobody else has the private key that
matches the public key used to decrypt
that signature which means that the
application actually comes from the
vendor that it's pretending to come
from. And that's exactly the same
mechanism that happens when you download
applications from any app store, be it
Apple, Android or Microsoft or whatever
app store out there. Those applications
are signed by the app store, by the
owner of the app store and by their
developers as well. So you can validate
all this information and you can be sure
that whatever you're downloading hasn't
been tampered with and it's also the
product that you're expecting. And in
most cases, these public keys that
you'll have to disseminate to your users
are going to be attached directly to the
application. So the application when you
download it actually comes prepackaged
with the vendor certificate as well.
You've probably noticed those warnings
in in Windows at least whenever you try
to download an executable file that was
just downloaded for the internet.
Sometimes Windows is going to complain
and tell you that this binary hasn't
been signed or the signature isn't
recognized by your system. Finally, for
memory management from a programming
perspective, this is very important
because this is where all the buffer
overflow attacks happen. We're going to
talk more about buffer overflows in a in
a different uh episode, but as an
overview, always whenever you allocate
memory for inputs and for outputs, be
sure that you check the memory that
you're allocating and that you're not
accepting any piece of data larger than
the buffer that you've pre-allocated. So
if you need just truncate the input that
comes in from the users. Don't just
allow them to upload a kilobyte input
into a name field right in a in a web
form. And make sure you free your memory
periodically. Don't just leave it to the
garbage collector. Even if you even if
you have it depending on the chosen
programming language, make sure you
always are aware of how much memory your
application is consuming and how are the
buffers being used. And for programmers,
make sure that they know about which
functions are considered to be safe and
which ones aren't. Now, there are a lot
of interpretations of whatever means to
be safe from a programming perspective,
but basically means that a safe function
or a safe code or a safe programming
language. It's not going to perform any
race conditions or buffer overflows or
run into unintended consequences if your
code is properly written. For example,
an uh a safe language is going to
automatically check for any buffer
overflows. An unsafe language doesn't
make these checks automatically. So,
you'll have to program specific
functionality for those checks in your
code. And of course, there's more, but
we should also end this episode at some
point. One of these additional ideas is
about logging. Make sure you are logging
user behavior and application behavior
in order to detect abnormalities, detect
maybe even security incidents or even
for performance or accounting reasons. A
good idea would be to also store this
logging information in a centralized
location. For example, by using the SIS
log protocol. Don't forget about
securing data at rest. That is data that
is stored on the client side in their
browser in their mobile phones on their
operating systems. And you should also
perform some integrity checking on that
data as well because data that is
already in the hands of the user is the
one that is most easily tampered with by
an attacker because they already have
that data, right? Try to validate it
before reusing it because in the
meantime an attacker might have, you
know, performed some changes on it. And
there are a lot of methods for code
analysis as well and we're going to talk
about these in the very next episode
actually. Uh but long story short, now
you're going to have static code
analysis, which just means, you know,
analyzing the source code for potential
uh unreachable codes or branches that
never get executed or branches that
generate an infinite loop in your code
that can be detected just by looking at
the code by human eyes or by an
automated tool. And they can also help
you determine if the application can
reach an undetermined state or an
unplanned state. Dynamic code analysis
on the other hand means analyzing how
the application actually performs in
production. So it doesn't look at the
code anymore but it looks at the
application behavior. Which connections
are being created? What files are being
accessed? Uh how many threads are
running at every single time? Stuff like
that. What procedures are being executed
during the authentication process or
during the normal user behavior or
whatever the user tries to perform
something that they are not authorized
for. And of course, so so much more. As
you can probably guess, this is a huge
topic simply because it's so complex due
to the huge amount of programming
languages out there, types of
application, use cases, types of users,
protocols, environments, local, cloud,
mobile, and so on. Now, if it were
possible to design perfectly secure code
from the very beginning, then cyber
security wouldn't exist at all because
what we're doing here is basically
protecting imperfect code, imperfect
applications. And we're protecting
against the mistakes of those that
programmed those applications, those
operating systems, those drivers before
us.
All right, so that's pretty much it for
today. Make sure for the exam that you
remember everything everything that we
talked about today because we've
actually covered about 10 or 15% if not
20 of the entire content of the CIA plus
exam. Now we're going to come back in
future episodes and dig some more into
these topics but we've covered the big
picture now and try to understand this
before moving forward. Now, if you found
this useful, show me with a like and a
subscribe because this also keeps me
motivated to do more videos like these
and help out some more people like you.
All right. So, thank you so much for
watching and have a great day.
[Music]