Well, it's pretty straightforward to
classify threats that you already know
about like viruses, Trojans, worms, root
kits. These traditional types of threats
are quite easy to mitigate because we
know about them and because we can
detect them automatically using some
sort of signature. So, we call them
known threats. Well, unfortunately, this
is not enough anymore.
[Music]
We've said in our previous videos that
unfortunately signature detection is not
enough anymore because currently the
level of sophistication and complexity
and attacks has increased so much that
now we have to identify them not just by
some signature but also by looking at
their behavior. So instead of relying on
a signature, we observe what that piece
of malware actually tries to do. Uh
creates some processes, changes files,
encrypts documents, opens connections.
Nevertheless, this is what we call
unknown threats. An unknown threat is
probably not going to be detected by
standard signaturebased tools. It simply
does not match any signature for, let's
say, two possible reasons. either
because it's advanced enough to look
like legitimate traffic like a normal
application uh with some normal behavior
or it is able to hide itself so well
that scanning engines don't catch it or
even it infects the scanning engines
themselves or the system calls that
they're using to scan or because it's
very new which sometimes is called a
zero day vulnerability or threat. It
means that the software vendor is either
not aware of the vulnerability just yet
or it is aware of it but it doesn't have
a fix for it. Either way, a zero day is
a vulnerability without a patch or a
solution. And it's called a zero day not
just on the first day, but until the
company develops a patch for it. Keep in
mind for the exam that the term zero day
usually refers to the vulnerability, but
sometimes it can refer to the attack
that exploits it as well.
The Port Swigger website has a nice
listing of some known zero days
currently out there. You can be
absolutely sure that there are many,
many more zero days out there, but we
haven't found out about them yet. And
you might wonder why is that? Why don't
people publish this stuff if it's uh so
dangerous?
Well, because a zero day vulnerability
can have a huge financial value. Just
imagine if you were the only one knowing
about a vulnerability in the latest
version of Apple's iOS or in some widely
used banking software around the world.
How much damage could you do? Or how
much money would someone be willing to
pay for this zeroday exploit? For the
exam, you should be aware of this uh I
would say a bit weird classification
based on knowledge. It's also called the
Johari window which basically covers the
four combinations between things that
are known or unknown by us or by the
rest of the world.
This Joe Hardy window is sometimes
connected to a well-known pun intended
uh speech from US Secretary of Defense
Donald Rumsfeld who said something like
this.
So mainly he referred to known knowns
when we know about the threat we
understand it we know what to do about
it we just have to act then known
unknowns when we are aware of the threat
but we don't understand it completely
like when we know that we should secure
software development against something
like uh SQL injections but the
programmers don't know how to do it then
we have unknown known moons. These are
things that we could understand but we
are not aware of. That is knowledge that
you don't know that it exists. This is
similar to the zero day that someone
else discovers in your software. And
then we have unknown unknowns when you
don't even know how little you know.
Does this make any sense? For example,
attacks that you are not even aware that
they exist. I would say this reflects
one of the diseases of the social aspect
of the internet where everyone has a
strong opinion regardless how little
they know about the topic. Anyway,
remember the Johari window for the exam.
Have fun understanding it. Just don't
bring it up at parties. But one thing
that we can get from this story is the
topic of bug bounties. These are
programs that reward with real money
those security researchers that manage
to identify and submit vulnerabilities
in the software products of a company.
Basically, this is a method for
companies that address that part of the
uh Johari window where they try to get
to know what they currently don't know.
So, it's like a company one day says,
"We don't know what vulnerabilities we
have, but we will pay anyone who can
find some for us so we can fix them."
This website here is uh not the only
one, but has a nice list of current
bounties paid by a lot of companies to
anyone who manages to find a
vulnerability and report it back to the
company and doesn't try to exploit it or
sell it on the dark web. With so many
unknowns and advanced threats that we
cannot match with simple signatures, we
can still use threat intelligence to try
to find out as much as we can. And one
of those things that we can find out
more about is the behavior of specific
types of attackers.
The first one is AP. It's a bit of a
weird term in my opinion because by
definition AP refers to the continuous
ability of a hacker or a group to
compromise systems to obtain and also
maintain access also known as
establishing persistence. Loheed Martin
introduced this term and they said that
A stands for advanced which means it's
targeted, coordinated, uh purposeful, it
might use some custom tools that we
haven't seen before. Uh P is persistent
which means that the intrusion is
designed to remain undetected for months
even years sometimes and T stand for
threat. This is the person or the group
that has a malicious intent. It also has
the opportunity to do it and also has
the capability to execute it. You can
have a look over the list from Fireey of
currently known and self-identified ABD
hacker groups all over the world. Their
methods often don't have much in common.
They also develop custom tools and
attack methods that make them very hard
to detect and eliminate. Also, in order
to ensure that persistence that we
mentioned, attacks carried out by AP
groups usually are very good at removing
all their traces. So that in many cases,
the attacks themselves are never
detected while they are carried out.
We only find out about them much later
from the media when some confidential
documents are leaked or data breaches
with personal information or source code
is is published.
One exam tip here. For some reason,
CompTIA assumes that an AP always refers
to wellfunded groups of hackers with
lots of resources perhaps receiving
support from governments.
But from my experience and from what the
other security vendors are saying,
normally APS are just about those
attacks that gain access to your
network, maintain it undetected, usually
for a long period of time, and they
probably steal some data. Do you need
government resources or to be very well
funded to do this in real life? Well,
no. Just some skill and perhaps some
luck in finding a weak target. I'm
mentioning this because other vendors
think this way too. If you see APS
outside the exam, think about persistent
malware, period. Not necessarily Russian
hackers influencing US elections. Okay.
Another category is organized crime.
Just like organized crime outside the
digital realm, cyber criminals are
usually focused on fraud, financial
gain, or to put it simply, it's about
stealing stuff, money, or valuable data.
Sometimes it might even be motivated by
some sort of revenge, but mostly they do
it for financial gain. A subcategory
here would be the cyber terrorist, which
although sounds like a virus infected
Robocop, cyber terrorists are hackers
that do harm without financial gain. Or
in the words of Alfred,
some men just want to watch the world
burn. Activists
are another type that does not seek
financial gain. An example would be
groups like Anonymous, which you might
have heard about in the media. They are
driven by moral justice. If you were to
ask them, they promote some political
agenda. They want to make statements
which usually imply a strong
disagreement with some government or
corporate decision. So, it's basically a
form of digital protest. Their behavior
is usually focused on stealing and
publishing sensitive data, defacing
websites, which is replacing the front
page of some government entity or
company with their own political
message, and executing denial of service
attacks to take down specific uh
websites.
Nation state are attackers that are
state sponsored. Many countries have
them. They are used for military
advantage, sometimes even commercial
gain. And you can probably guess that
the nation states are strongly connected
with APS especially if we think about
them like CompTIA does that they are
very well funded and they have the
support of some foreign government. I
know that most people when hearing about
this description would think about North
Korea, China, Russia, but if you
remember the NSA documents published on
Wikileaks, they proved that the NSA was
in the possession of a lot of zero days
and the companies involved knew nothing
about them. So yeah, everybody does it.
Nation state attackers are dangerous.
From one additional point of view, you
should understand that people that work
for governments and perform such
activities
inside their own minds, they are
patriots. They do not think that they're
doing anything wrong. On the contrary,
they think they're doing justice.
Script kitties. It might sound less
threatening or even insulting, but
script kitties are not kids. There are
people just like you and I who might be
beginner hackers, might just want to
attack some systems for fun or just to
see how it works. They don't have the
knowledge or the skills for hacking.
They don't understand exactly how the
attack or the exploit works. They just
grab the tools, the scripts for a
specific attack and they run them. So,
it's just like a couple of kids who
found a remote control toy car and
started playing with it without caring
about how the electrical engine works or
when the batteries will run out. They
sound inoffensive, but they're still
dangerous, by the way. Those tools might
be easy to use, but they are made by
real hackers, and they work. They might
not be the latest and the greatest, but
they still can do a lot of damage,
especially against older and unpatched
systems.
Recreational hackers are not considered
dangerous. At least as long as they do
it for recreational purposes, which by
the way covers hacking competitions,
capture the flag, security contests,
hackathons. We still need to watch out
for them because they have real skills
and they might just decide one day to do
an episode of hackers gone wild and do
something nasty.
Professional hackers are people who work
as penetration testers or security
auditors. They can be hired and they
don't act with malicious intent but
under a contractual agreement. Security
researchers that attempt to find
vulnerabilities and report them
immediately also fall into this
category. Suicide hackers.
You might see them on the exam or you
might not. They're not exactly a
specific type of hacker as much as a
specific type of uh person, which is a
person that has nothing to lose, commits
illegal acts, data theft, destroys
systems or data, and does not care if
they are caught. They even assume that
they will be caught at some point, hence
the term suicide. But they only want to
reach their goals by any means. So these
are desperate hackers living in
desperate times. And just in case you're
wondering, no, a group of suicide
hackers doesn't make a suicide squad.
The insider threat, that's your
colleague right next to you who someday
might decide to attack the company. Your
colleague is much more dangerous because
he or she already has access to some
systems. Which also means that even if
we have the best perimeter defense, it
does not matter anymore. It's completely
useless against an attacker that's
already inside our network and that we
already trust.
So why would your colleague do it? Well,
they might be angry with the company.
They might think of stealing some money
by changing some financial records.
Maybe they were bribed by a competitor
to steal some secrets. Or maybe they
were threatened.
Insider threats can also be
unintentional. Even employees using weak
passwords can be an internal threat, but
also a threat can come from shadow IT.
It sounds kind of ominous, but it's far
from it. Shadow IT means integrating
devices or software or cloud services
into the company without the knowledge
of IT or not included in any security
policy. To give you a few examples,
mobile devices, hidden switches or
wireless access points under the desks,
uh cloud services, for example, admins
deciding that one day that the company's
storage infrastructure is too
complicated to use. So, they decide to
store all their configuration, backups,
keys, certificates, and something like
Dropbox. Who monitors Dropbox? Who
manages access to that storage? Well,
nobody. That's why it's called shadow
IT. Former employees can also be
internal threats, especially if they
have retained some access due to a badly
conducted offboarding process. Maybe it
or HR simply forgot to revoke their
access or they could just know some
information that can cause damage. Just
an exam tip here, CompTI really like to
address insider threats in their exams.
So, always try to keep them in mind when
looking for threat actors.
Another useful exam concept is commodity
malware. So what is it? Well, it's
malware. So it's bad code, malicious
software, right? And it's commodity
because it's available to you, to me, to
everyone. Well, if it's so popular and
so wellknown and everybody knows what to
look for, then we should be able to
identify it easily with any antivirus,
right? And yes, we can detect them
easily. So why does it still matter?
Well, it matters because it's the most
common type of malware. It's basically
what 99% of the time we call malware.
And it's still so dangerous because a
lot of computers and people out there
don't use any kind of antivirus and use
old, outdated, unpatched end of life
systems and software and they can still
fall victim to these common attacks. So,
how do you get some malware if it's so
easy? If you want to play with some of
these well-known viruses, Trojans,
crypto lockers, have a look over this
link. It's not the only link, of course,
but be aware this is live malware code.
Download and use at your own risk. You
can also find the link in the video
description.
Or you can create your own malware with
something like the Empire Project tool.
Now, don't think that this tool will
actually create a complete new piece of
malware. It's still using some templates
so you're not getting away undetected.
You can find it on GitHub and you can
run it in a Docker container. Also the
link in the description or you can buy
it from the dark web. And no, I'm not
going to give you the link this time. So
I'll just give you this nice article
that explains the dark web better than I
can.
So if it's not commodity malware, then
it's probably some custom malware,
right? Like those used in AP attacks.
But don't think that commodity malware
is used only by hackers with limited
resources. Oftentimes, AP groups will
begin an attack, especially in the
reconnaissance phase, using commodity
malware, some well-known tools, so that
they won't be as easily identified.
Then, while everyone is looking at some
insignificant malware, they would bring
out the big custom guns. All right. So,
for the exam, be sure to remember the
types of threats that we've talked about
and the different types of nasty
attackers that might be after your data.
Keep in mind that they do have different
types of expertise as hackers, but also
different reasons for being those bad
guys. And that's it about threat actors
and threat classification. Don't forget
to subscribe and see you on the next
video.
[Music]